<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
  <head>
  </head>
  <body>   

<div><h1>Chapter I</h1></div>

<p>Mr Packer dangled the heavy bunch of keys for a
moment before laying it on the table.</p>

<p>‘Four years is a long time to be away,’ he said.</p>

<p>His voice was so drily polite that Charles Moray
could not fail to be aware that in the eyes of his
solicitor four years’ absence, and a consequent neglect
of all the business arising out of his father’s death and
his own succession, was a dereliction. An only son who
succeeded to a large estate had no business to walk the
uttermost parts of the earth. He should step into his
place as a citizen, stand for Parliament in the constituency
represented by three generations of his family,
and—settle down.</p>

<p>Charles picked up the bunch of keys, looked at them
with an odd fleeting frown, and put them in his pocket.</p>

<p>‘You won’t be going to the house tonight, I suppose,’
said Mr Packer.</p>

<p>‘No. I’m staying at The Luxe. I just thought I’d look
in and get the keys.’</p>

<p>‘I asked because I believe—in fact I know—that the
caretaker Lattery, is out. He is always out on Thursday
evening. I am aware of the fact, because it is his
practice to call at this office for his wages; he comes
very punctually at five o’clock. And I thought that if
you had any intention of calling at the house, his
absence might surprise you.’</p>

<p>‘No, I shan’t go round there tonight,’ said Charles.
He glanced at his watch. ‘Haven’t time—Millar’s
dining with me. I expect you remember him.’</p>

<p>Mr Packer remembered Mr Millar; not, apparently,
with enthusiasm.</p>

<p>Charles got up.</p>

<p>‘Well. I’ll be round in the morning. I can sign anything
you want me to then. I hope I haven’t kept you.
I’d no idea it was so late.’</p>

<p>He walked back to The Luxe in the dusk of the
October evening—dampish, coldish—a gloomy,
depressing sort of climate to welcome a man who has
had four years of tropical sunshine.</p>

<p>Charles sniffed the cold wet air and found it good.
It was surprisingly good to be at home again. The rage
and pain which had driven him out of England four
years ago were gone, burnt to the ash of forgetfulness by
the very fierceness of their own flame. He could think of
Margaret Langton now without either pain or anger.
She was married of course; a girl doesn’t turn a man
down like that on the very eve of their wedding unless
there’s another man. No, Margaret must be married.
Very likely they would meet. He told himself that it
would be quite an interesting meeting for them both.</p>

<p>At The Luxe a telegram from Archie Millar—‘Awfully
sorry. My Aunt Elizabeth has wired for me.
She does it once a month or so. Hard luck she hit on
tonight. Cheerio. Archie.’</p>

<p>Charles ate his dinner alone. During the soup he
regretted Archie Millar, but with the fish the regret
passed. He did not want Archie or Archie’s company;
he did not want to go to a theatre or do a show; he
wanted vehemently and insistently to go to the house
which was now his own house, and to go to it whilst it
stood empty of everything except its memories. He
didn’t want to hear Lattery’s account of his stewardship,
or to listen to Mrs Lattery deploring the way that
the damp got into things. ‘No matter what you do, sir,
or how much you air—and I’m sure I’m such a one for
airing as never was.’ Her high-pitched, querulous
voice rang sharply in his ears. No, he didn’t want to
talk to Mrs Lattery. But he wanted to see the house.</p>

<p>His impatience grew as he walked westward facing a
soft wind that was full of rain. The house drew him.
And why not? His great-grandfather had built it; his
grandfather and his father had been born there; he
himself had been born there—four generations of them—four
generations of memories. And the house stood
empty, waiting for him to come to it.</p>

<p>A hundred years ago Thorney Lane was a real lane,
whose hedgerows were thick with thorn that blossomed
white as milk in May and set its dark red haws for birds
to peck at in October. It was a paved walk now, running
from one busy thoroughfare to another, with wooden
posts set across it at either end to show that it was for the
use of foot passengers only. When Mr Archibald Moray
built his big house the thoroughfares were country
roads.</p>

<p>Half-way up Thorney Lane a narrow alley separated
the houses which looked on to Thornhill Square from
the houses of the more modern George Street. The old
lane had wandered pleasantly between high banks
where the alley ran straight between high brick walls.
No. 1 Thornhill Square was the corner house.</p>

<p>Charles Moray, walking up Thorney Lane turned to
the right and proceeded for about a dozen yards along
the alley-way. He stopped in front of the door in the
brick wall and took out the bunch of keys which Mr
Packer had given him. This key, at least, he thought he
could find in the dark. How many times had he and
Margaret walked the narrow alley in the twilight, in the
dusk, in the dark?</p>

<p>He wondered if the Pelhams were still at 12 George
Street, and if Freddy Pelham had learned any new
stories in the last four years—Freddy and his interminable
pointless tales about nothing! Even when
he had been at the height of his love for Margaret it had
been hard work to put up with Margaret’s stepfather.
Well, he wouldn’t have to laugh at Freddy’s stories
now.</p>

<p>He ran his fingers over the keys until they touched
the one he wanted; it had a nick in it half-way down the
shaft. He let the other keys fall away from it and put
out his left hand to feel for the keyhole. His fingers
touched the cold, wet wood and slid down on to
colder iron. Under the pressure of his hand the door
moved. He pushed, and it swung. There was no need
for him to use his key on a door that had stood not only
unlocked but unlatched. Lattery had grown slack
indeed if he made a practice of going out by the back
way and leaving the door ajar.</p>

<p>It was very dark in the garden. The high brick wall
cut off the last glimmer of the lamp which was supposed
to light Thorney Lane and the alley that ran into it.</p>

<p>Charles walked down the flagged path with as much
assurance as if he had had daylight to show him what
only his mind was showing him now. Here the thorn
tree, a seedling eighty years ago, dropped from some
survivor of the old hedge. Next, lavender bushes, sweet
in the dark as he brushed them by. The garden was of a
good size, and had been larger before his grandfather
built out a ballroom upon what had once been a formal
terrace.</p>

<p>Charles passed the long dark windows with slender
fluted columns between them. It was inevitable that he
should think of the June night which had seen every
window brilliant, open to the soft summer dusk. The
dancers had only to step out from between the pillars
and descend two marble steps to find themselves
amongst flowers.</p>

<p>He frowned and walked on; then threw up his head
and stopped. What was that June evening to him now,
that he should shirk the remembrance of it? If the past
had any ghosts, it was better to look them in the face
and bid them begone for ever. The June night rose
vividly. The last hours of his engagement to Margaret
rose; he saw himself and her; her father, proud and
pleased; Margaret in white and silver, radiant and for
once beautiful. He could have sworn that the radiance
and the beauty flowed from some lamp of joy within;
and, with their wedding day only a week ahead, he had
not doubted what flame burned high in that lamp of
joy. Yet next day she had sent him back his ring.</p>

<p>Charles stared at the dark windows. What a fool he
had been! His incredulity was the measure of his folly.
He could not believe Margaret’s own words in her own
writing—not till the telephone had failed him; not till
he had forced an entrance into the Pelhams’ house,
only to hear that Margaret had left town; not till he
read in every newspaper the cold announcement that
‘the marriage arranged between Mr Charles Moray and
Miss Margaret Langton will not take place’.</p>

<p>Did he accept the facts? It is not a pleasant thing to
be jilted. Charles Moray flung out of England in as
bitter a rage as the galling humiliation warranted. He
had never had to think of money in his life: if he wanted
to travel he could travel. His father made no demur.
India first, and Tibet; then China—the hidden, difficult,
dangerous China which only a few Europeans know.
Then in Peking he fell in with Justin Parr, and Parr persuaded
him into an enthusiasm for the unexplored
tracts of South America.</p>

<p>He was still hesitating, when his father died suddenly;
and there being nothing to come home for, he set off
with Parr on a voyage of adventure with a secret
unacknowledged lure, the hope of forgetting Margaret.</p>

<p>Charles looked steadily at these ghosts of his and
saw them vanish into the dark, thin air. He was
immensely pleased with himself for having faced them,
and it was with a glow of self-approbation that he came
to the end of the flagged path and groped for the
handle of the garden door.</p>

<p>The glow changed to one of anger. This door was
open too. He began to have serious thoughts of celebrating
his return by sacking Lattery. He stepped into a
passage. It ran a few feet and ended in a swing door
which gave upon the hall. There was a light here; not
one of the hanging lamps which could flood the whole
place, but a small, discreet shaded affair set away in a
corner.</p>

<p>There is something very melancholy about a big
empty house. Charles looked at the light and wondered
if this house was really empty. It ought to have felt
empty. But it didn’t. And he ought, perhaps, to have felt
melancholy. Instead, he was experiencing a certain
elated feeling which was partly expectancy, and partly
the instinct that scents adventure. He went up the
stairs and turned into the right-hand corridor. This
floor was in darkness. A faint glow came up from the
well of the stairs and made the gloom visible. He had
his hand on the switch which controlled the light, when
he paused and after a moment let his hand fall again.</p>

<p>At the end of the corridor two doors faced each
other. The right-hand door was invisible in the darkness,
but across the threshold of the left-hand door lay a
faint pencilling of light.</p>

<p>Charles looked at this pencilling, and told himself
that Mrs Lattery was in the room. All the same he
walked softly, and when he reached the door he stood
still, listening. And as he stood, he heard one man
speak and another answer him.</p>

<p>Moving quite noiselessly, he stepped backwards until
he could touch the opposite door; then, putting his hand
behind him, he turned the handle, passed into the dark
room, and closed the door again.</p>

<p>The room into which he had come was the one
which had been his mother’s bedroom. The room
opposite was her sitting-room, and between the two,
across the end of the corridor, there ran a windowless
cupboard—a delightful place for a child to play in. He
could remember his mother’s dresses hanging there,
silken, lavender scented, whispering when you touched
them. She died when he was ten; and then there were
no more dresses hanging there.</p>

<p>Charles opened the door very softly. The seven feet
of black emptiness gave out a cold, musty smell—Mrs
Lattery had not done very much of her boasted airing
here. He went forward into the blackness until his
fingers touched the panelling on the far side of it. Long
ago there had been a door here too; but it had been
shut up to make more space for Mrs Moray’s dresses.
The keyhole had been filled and the handle removed.</p>

<p>Charles had regretted the keyhole. It had figured in
his games, and he could still remember the thrill with
which he had discovered a peep-hole which replaced it
handsomely. Four feet from the floor on the extreme
edge of the panelling a knot hole had been filled with
glue and sawdust stained to match the wood of the door.
With infinite patience the little boy of nine had
loosened the filling until it could be withdrawn at will
like a cork. It was the memory of this peep-hole which
brought him into the cupboard now. An unlatched gate,
and an open door, and men’s voices—these things
seemed to require an explanation.</p>

<p>He knelt down, felt for the knot-hole, and gently,
cautiously, pulled out the plug that filled it.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter II</h1></div>

<p>Charles Moray looked through the hole in the panelling
and saw what surprised him very much. The room
beyond was half in shadow and half in light. There was
a lamp with a tilted shade on the rosewood table which
held his mother’s photograph albums. It stood perched
on the fattest album with its green silk shade tipped
back so as to throw all the light towards the door.</p>

<p>Charles drew back instinctively lest he should be
seen; but the ray fell away to the left of his panelling
and was focused on the door across whose threshold he
had seen the pencilled line of light.</p>

<p>There were two men sitting at the table. One of them
had his back to Charles, who could see no more than a
black overcoat and a felt hat. The other man was in the
shadow facing him. Charles, peering and intrigued,
beheld a white shirt-front framed, as it were, in a sort
of loose black cloak. Above the shirt front a blur,
formless and featureless. Certainly the man had a head;
but, as certainly, he seemed to have no face. However
deep the shadow, you ought to be able to see the line
where the hair meets the forehead, and the outline of
the jaw.</p>

<p>Charles drew a longish breath. The man didn’t seem
to have any hair or any jaw; he was just a shirt front
and a cloak and a greyish blur that had no form or
feature. It was rather beastly.</p>

<p>Then as he felt the short hairs on his neck begin to
prickle, the man with his back to him said,</p>

<p>‘Suppose there’s a certificate?’</p>

<p>The shoulders under the black cloak were shrugged;
a deep, soft voice gave an answer;</p>

<p>‘If there’s a certificate, so much the worse for the
girl.’</p>

<p>‘What do you mean?’ The first man hurried over the
question.</p>

<p>‘Why, she must go of course. I should think a street
accident would be the safest way.’ The words were
spoken with a gentle, indifferent inflexion. The man in
the shadow lifted a paper, looked down at it with that
blur of a face, and inquired, ‘You are sure there was no
will?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, quite sure. The lawyer took care of that.’</p>

<p>‘There might have been a second one—millionaires
have a curious passion for making wills.’</p>

<p>‘Twenty-seven was quite sure. Here’s his report. Will
you look at it?’</p>

<p>A paper passed. The lamp was turned a little, the
shade adjusted. Charles saw the light touch part of a
hand, and saw that the hand wore a grey rubber glove.
His heart gave a jump.</p>

<p>‘By gum! That’s what he’s got on his face too!
Beastly! All over his face and head—grey rubber—a
grey rubber mask!’</p>

<p>The lamp was his mother’s reading-lamp. The room,
unused since her death, remained for Charles Moray a
place of warmth and shaded light, a place where he
mustn’t make a noise, a fire-lit evening place where he
sat cross-legged on the floor beside a sofa and a soft,
tired voice told him stories. What were these unbelievable
people doing in this place? It made him feel rather
sick to see the light slant from the reading-lamp across
that grey, smooth hand on to the pages of Twenty-seven’s
report; it made him very angry too. Of all the
infernal cheek—</p>

<p>The pages turned with an even flick; Grey Mask was
a quick reader. He dropped the report in a heap and
said, in that deep purring voice,</p>

<p>‘Is Twenty-seven here?’</p>

<p>The other man nodded.</p>

<p>‘Are you ready for him?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>Charles jerked back from his peep-hole. Someone
had moved so near him that the recoil was instinctive.
Coming cautiously forward again, he became aware
that there was a third man in the room, away on his
left, keeping guard over the door. When he stood close
to the door he was out of sight; but when he opened it
he came sufficiently forward to be visible as a blue
serge suit and the sort of khaki muffler which everybody’s
aunts turned out by the gross during the war.
The muffler came up so high that the fellow was really
only a suit of clothes and a scarf.</p>

<p>Through the open door there came a man who looked
like a commercial traveller. He wore a large overcoat
and a bowler hat. Charles never got a glimpse of his
face. He walked up to the table with an air of assurance
and looked about him for a chair.</p>

<p>There was no chair within reach, and under Grey
Mask’s silent, unmoving stare some of the assurance
seemed to evaporate. The stare was a very curious one,
for the holes in the smooth grey face were not eye-shaped
but square—small square holes like dark dice
on a grey ground. They gave Charles himself an
indescribable feeling of being watched.</p>

<p>‘Twenty-seven—’ said Grey Mask.</p>

<p>‘Come to report.’</p>

<p>Grey Mask tapped the sheets of the written report
sharply.</p>

<p>‘Your report is too long. It leaves out essentials.
There’s too much about you—not enough about the
facts. For instance, you say the lawyer took care of the
will. Did he destroy it?’</p>

<p>Twenty-seven hesitated. Charles suspected him of a
desire to hedge.</p>

<p>‘Did he?’</p>

<p>‘Well—yes, he did.’</p>

<p>‘How?’</p>

<p>‘Burnt it.’</p>

<p>‘Witnesses?’</p>

<p>‘One’s dead. The other—’</p>

<p>‘Well?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know. It’s a woman.’</p>

<p>‘Her name?’</p>

<p>‘Mary Brown—spinster.’</p>

<p>‘Know who she was?’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘Find out and report again. That’s essential. Then
there’s another point. There was no certificate?’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘Sure?’</p>

<p>‘I couldn’t find one. The lawyer doesn’t know of one.
I don’t believe there is one—I don’t believe there was a
marriage.’</p>

<p>‘Too much “you”,’ said Grey Mask. ‘Find out about
that witness. You can go now.’</p>

<p>The man went, looking over his shoulder as if he
were expecting to be called back.</p>

<p>Charles did not see his face at all. He was cursing
himself for a fool. He ought to have got downstairs
before Twenty-seven. He had his plan all made, and he
ought to have been attending to it instead of listening to
the gentleman confessing his criminal activities. Twenty-seven
would now get away, whereas if Charles had cut
along the corridor and locked the door at the end of it,
he might very well have had a bag of four waiting for
the police.</p>

<p>At a very early stage of this interview his thoughts
had dwelt hopefully on the fact, so much deplored by
Mr Packer, that his telephone subscription had been
kept going during those four years of absence.</p>

<p>Twenty-seven had faded—must fade if the other three
were to be bagged. It was a pity; but perhaps the police
would gather him in later.</p>

<p>‘I’ll get along,’ said Charles; and as he said it, he
heard the invisible man on his left move again. He
moved and he said, in a whispering Cockney voice.</p>

<p>‘Twenty-six is ’ere, guvnor.’</p>

<p>Grey Mask nodded. He had pushed Twenty-seven’s
report across the table, and the other man was
straightening the sheets and laying them tidily together.</p>

<p>‘Shall I let ’er in?’ The ‘’er’ brought Charles’s eye
back to the knot-hole again. He had withdrawn it an
inch or two preparatory to getting noiselessly on to his
feet; but the Cockney’s ‘Shall I let ’er in’ intrigued him.</p>

<p>There was the sound of the opening door. The blue
serge suit and the khaki muffler bulged into view again,
and, passing them, there came a straight black back
and a close black cap with a long fold of black gauzy
stuff that crossed the cap like a veil and hung down in
two floating ends.</p>

<p>Charles received such a shock that the room went
blank for a moment. He saw, and did not see; heard
words, and made no sense of what he heard. He was
within an ace of lurching sideways, and actually thrust
out a hand to save his balance. The hand encountered
the panelling against which his mother’s dresses used to
hang. He kept it there pressed out against the cold
wood, whilst with all his might he stared at the straight
black back of Number 26 and told himself with a
vehement iteration that this was not, and could not be,
Margaret Langton.</p>

<p>The iteration died; the rushing sound that filled his
ears dwindled. His hand pressed the wall. The blankness
passed. He saw the room, with its familiar furnishings—the
blue curtains, dark and shadowy; the faded carpet
with the wreaths of blue flowers on a fawn-coloured
ground; the table with the photograph albums and the
lamp with its tilted shade. The ray of light crossing the
room showed him the edge of the closing door. It
passed out of sight and shut without a sound.</p>

<p>Margaret was standing with her back to him.
Margaret was standing at the table with her back to
him. The light would miss her face because she was
standing above it. He needed neither the sight of that
face nor any light upon it to be sure that it was
Margaret who was standing there. Her hands were in
the light. They were ungloved. She was putting down a
packet of papers; they looked like letters.</p>

<p>Charles saw the hands that were more familiar to
him than any of the familiar things in the room which
he had known ever since he had known anything at all.
He looked at Margaret’s hands. He had always thought
them the most beautiful hands that he had ever seen—not
small or slender, but strong white hands, beautifully
formed, cool and alive to the touch. The hands were
quite bare. He had made sure that Margaret was
married, but there was no wedding ring on the finger
that had worn his square emerald.</p>

<p>As he saw these things he became aware that
Margaret was speaking, her voice so very low that the
sound barely reached him and the words did not reach
him at all. She stood holding the edge of the table and
speaking in that low voice; and then with a quick
movement she turned and came back along the ray of
light to the door, which swung open to pass her
through. The light was at her back. The scarf with the
floating ends veiled her face. She moved with her old
free step and the little swing of the shoulders that he
knew by heart. She held up her head. The ends of the
scarf moved behind her. She passed through the door
and was gone. The door shut.</p>

<p>Charles drew a very long breath. He had not seen her
face.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter III</h1></div>

<p>Charles continued to look into the room. The place
where Margaret had stood was just at the edge of where
the thick double wreath of fat blue flowers began to
twine itself about a central medallion. There was a little
worn place just to the right of where she had stood. He
stared at the worn place. Margaret had been here and
was gone again—<span class='it'>Margaret</span>. Well, that put the lid on
telephoning to the police. Yes, by gum it did!</p>

<p>A quick spasm of laughter shook him. He had said
that it would be interesting to meet Margaret again—<span class='it'>interesting</span>.</p>

<p>‘Oh, my hat!’ said Charles to himself.</p>

<p>Interesting enough—yes, and a bit to spare if he and
Margaret were to meet in a crowded police court. A
very pretty romantic scene. ‘Do you recognize this
woman?’ ‘Oh yes, I almost married her once.’ Headlines
from the evening paper rose luridly: ‘Parted
Lovers meet in Police Court.’ ‘Jilted Explorer and Lost
Bride.’ ‘Should Women become Criminals?’ No, the
police were off.</p>

<p>He came back from the headlines at the sound of a
name:</p>

<p>‘Margot.’ It was the man sitting at the table with his
back to him who had spoken.</p>

<p>Charles withdrew his hand from the wall and listened
intently. He had thought for a moment that the fellow
was going to say Margaret. Then he heard the man say,</p>

<p>‘Thirty-two is kicking.’</p>

<p>Grey Mask moved one of the smooth gloved hands;
the gesture indicated that Thirty-two and any possible
protest he might make were equally negligible.</p>

<p>‘He is kicking all the same.’</p>

<p>Grey Mask spoke; the purr was a sneer.</p>

<p>‘Can a jelly-fish kick? What’s it all about?’</p>

<p>The man with his back to Charles shrugged his
shoulders.</p>

<p>‘Says ten per cent isn’t worth the risk.’</p>

<p>‘Where’s the risk? He gets the money quite legally.’</p>

<p>‘Says he ought to get more than ten per cent—says
he doesn’t want to marry the girl—says he’ll be hanged
if he marries her.’</p>

<p>Grey Mask leaned a little forward.</p>

<p>‘Well, he won’t be <span class='it'>hanged</span> if he doesn’t do what he’s
told, but he’ll go down for a seven years’ stretch. Tell
him so.’ He scribbled on a piece of paper and pushed it
over. ‘Give him this. If he doesn’t prefer liberty, ten
per cent, and a pretty wife to seven years’ hard, he can
have the seven years. He won’t like it.’</p>

<p>The other man took up the paper.</p>

<p>‘He says he doesn’t know why he should marry the
girl. I told him I’d put that to you. Why should he?’</p>

<p>‘Provides for her—looks well—keeps her quiet—keeps
her friends quiet.’</p>

<p>The other man spoke quickly:</p>

<p>‘Then you think there might be a certificate?’</p>

<p>‘I’m not taking risks. Tell Thirty-two he’s to use the
letter as we arranged.’</p>

<p>‘Then you do think—’</p>

<p>There was no answer. The other man spoke again:</p>

<p>‘There’s nothing at Somerset House. Isn’t that good
enough?’</p>

<p>‘Not quite. Everyone doesn’t get married at their
parish church or the nearest registry office—everyone
doesn’t even get married in England.’</p>

<p>‘Was he married?’</p>

<p>Grey Mask straightened the shade of the reading-lamp;
the lane of light that had led to the door disappeared.</p>

<p>‘If Forty there had ears, he could answer that question.’</p>

<p>‘Forty—’</p>

<p>‘Perhaps. Forty says he used to walk up and down
the deck. He says he talked. Perhaps he said something;
perhaps he talked of things he wouldn’t have talked
about if he hadn’t known that Forty would be none the
wiser. In the end the sea got him and none of us are any
the wiser. Pity Forty there never learned lip-reading.’</p>

<p>He lifted his hand and signalled with it. Forty, then,
was the janitor. And he was stone-deaf—useful in a way
of course, but awkward too. Charles wondered how he
knew when there was anyone on the other side of the
door. Of course if he had his hand on the panel and
anyone knocked, he would feel the vibration. Yes, it
could be done that way—a code of signals too.</p>

<p>He had just reached this point, when the light went
out. The door had begun to open, and then Grey Mask
put his hand to the switch of the lamp, and the room
went dark, with just one blur of greenish dusk which
faded and was gone in the gloom.</p>

<p>Charles got up. He was rather stiff. He got back into
his mother’s room without making any noise, and
before he put his hand on the door, he stood for an
instant listening, and could hear no sound. He would
have liked to rush them from behind, catch them perhaps
at the head of the stairs and send them sprawling, a
loud war-whoop and their own bad consciences to aid.
It might have been a very pleasant affair. He liked to
think of Forty’s square bulk coming down with a good
resounding thud upon the wild writhings of the other
two.</p>

<p>Hang Margaret! If she hadn’t come butting into
heaven knew what of a dirty criminal conspiracy, he
might have been really enjoying himself. Instead, he
must mark time, must tiptoe through his own house
after a pack of scallywags.</p>

<p>Charles tiptoed. He reached the head of the stairs
and looked down into the hall. Someone moved in the
twilight; a light went on. Lattery, the caretaker, crossed
the lighted space whistling <span class='it'>Way Down Upon the Swanee
River</span>. He whistled flat.</p>

<p>Charles charged down the stairs and arrived like an
exploding bomb.</p>

<p>‘Where the devil have you been, and what the devil
have you been doing?’</p>

<p>Lattery stared, and his knees shook under him; his
big stupid face took on a greenish hue.</p>

<p>Charles ran to the garden door. It was still open. He
ran up the garden, and heard the door in the wall fall to
with a slam. By the time he got it open and burst into
the alley, someone was disappearing round the corner
into Thorney Lane. He sprinted to the corner and
round it. The someone was a whistling errand boy with
a crop of red hair that showed pure ginger under the
street lamp.</p>

<p>At the bottom of Thorney Lane there was a woman.
He ran after her. When he reached the roaring
thoroughfare, there were half a dozen women on every
couple of yards of pavement. The two big cinemas at
either end of the street had just come out.</p>

<p>He went back to the house in a black bad temper.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter IV</h1></div>

<p>He interviewed Lattery, and could not determine
whether he had to do with an unfaithful steward or a
great stupid oaf who was scared to death by the sudden
apparition of a gentleman whom he believed to be
some thousands of miles away.</p>

<p>‘Where had you been?’</p>

<p>‘Seeing it was Thursday,’ said Lattery in his slow
perplexed voice.</p>

<p>‘Where had you been?’</p>

<p>‘Seeing it was Thursday, Mr Charles—I beg your
pardon, <span class='it'>sir</span>—seeing it was Thursday and the day I take
my pay from the lawyer same as he arranged—and I
put it to him fair and square, and so he’ll tell you. I put
it to him, sir, wouldn’t it be convenient for to fix on
Thursday for me to take the evening off like? And the
lawyer he says to me—and one of his clerks was in the
room and could tell you the same—he says to me as
how there wasn’t any objection.’</p>

<p>‘Thursday’s your evening off?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, Mr Charles—I beg your pardon—<span class='it'>sir</span>.’</p>

<p>‘You always go out on Thursday?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, sir.’</p>

<p>Lattery’s face had regained its florid colour, but his
round eyes dwelt anxiously on Charles.</p>

<p>‘Do you always leave the garden door open?’
Charles shot the question at him suddenly.</p>

<p>‘The garden door, sir?’</p>

<p>‘The door from the little passage into the garden. Do
you generally leave it open?’</p>

<p>‘No, sir.’</p>

<p>‘Why did you leave it open tonight?’</p>

<p>‘Was it open, sir?’</p>

<p>‘Don’t you know it was? Didn’t you come in that
way?’</p>

<p>‘I come in through the front door,’ said Lattery,
staring.</p>

<p>They were in the study, which opened out of the hall.
Charles crossed to the door, flung it open wide, and
looked across.</p>

<p>‘If you came in through the front door, who bolted it
and put up the chain?’</p>

<p>‘Please, sir, I did.’</p>

<p>Charles felt a little ridiculous. He banged the door
and came back to his seat.</p>

<p>‘When I reached this house an hour ago,’ he said, ‘the
door on the alley-way was open. I came in by it. The
garden door was open, and I came into the house by
that. I went upstairs, and there was a light in my
mother’s sitting-room.’</p>

<p>‘Someone must have left it on, sir.’</p>

<p>‘The people who left it on were still in the room,’ said
Charles drily. ‘They were men—three of them. And
they got away down the stair just before me. Are you
going to tell me you didn’t see anything?’</p>

<p>‘I take my oath I didn’t see anything.’</p>

<p>‘Or hear anything?’</p>

<p>Lattery hesitated.</p>

<p>‘I sort of thought I heard a door bang—yes, I certainly
thought I heard a door, for it come into my mind
that the missus was early.’</p>

<div><h1>Chapter V</h1></div>

<p>Miss Standing sighed, sniffed, dabbed her eyes with
rather a tired-looking handkerchief, and plunged an
experienced finger and thumb into the depths of a large
box of Fuller’s chocolates. Having selected a luscious
and melting chocolate cream, she sighed again and
continued the letter which she had just began. She
wrote on a pad propped against her knee, and she
addressed the bosom friend whom she left behind only
two days before at Madame Mardon’s very select and
expensive Swiss Academy. The words, ‘My darling
angel Stephanie’, were scrawled across the pale blue
page.</p>

<p>Miss Standing sucked at her chocolates and wrote on:</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p>It’s all too perfectly horrid and beastly for words.
All the way across M’amselle could only tell me that
poor papa had died suddenly. She said there was
only that in the telegram, and that I was to come
home. And when I got here last night, there wasn’t
any Mrs Beauchamp like there always is in the
holidays, and the servants looked odd. And M’amselle
went off this morning, and I don’t really know what’s
happened, except that Papa was at sea in his yacht
somewhere in the Mediterranean. So there isn’t any
funeral or anything, and of course I haven’t got any
black—only just the things I came away with. And
it’s all frightfully miserable. If you don’t write to
me, I shall die. It’s frightful not to have anyone to
talk to. The lawyer—Papa’s lawyer—is coming to
talk to me this morning. He telephoned to say he was
coming. I suppose I shall be simply frightfully rich.
But it’s so depressing. It makes me wish I’d got some
relations, even frightfully dull ones like Sophy Weir’s.
<span class='it'>Do</span> you remember her aunt’s hat? I haven’t any
relations at all except my cousin Egbert, and I’d
rather have no relations than him—so would
anyone. He’s the most appalling mug you ever saw.</p>

</div>

<p>Miss Standing frowned at the word <span class='it'>appalling</span>, which
she had written with one p and two l’s. It didn’t look
quite right. She took another chocolate, struck out one
of the l’s, put in another p, and continued:</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p>I shan’t come back to school of course. After all, I
am eighteen, and they can’t make me. I do wonder if
I shall have a guardian. In books the girl always
marries her guardian, which I think is too frightfully
dull for words. You’ll have to come and stay with
me, and we’ll have a frightfully good time.</p>

</div>

<p>She stopped and heaved a sigh, because of course
Stephanie wouldn’t be able to come till Christmas, and
Christmas, to use Miss Standing’s own simple
vocabulary, was a frightfully long way off—nearly
three months.</p>

<p>She stared gloomily into the rich and solemn room.
It was a very large room, running from front to back of
the big London house, and it had the ordered richness
of a shrine rather than any air of everyday comfort.
There were priceless Persian rugs upon the floor, dim
with the exquisite colouring of a bygone age. The curtains
were of historic brocade, woven at Lyons before
Lyons ran blood in the days of the Terror. The panelling
on the walls had come from a house in the Netherlands,
a house in which the great Duke of Alba had lived.
On this panelling hung the Standing Collection; each
picture a fortune and a collector’s prize—Gainsborough;
Sir Joshua; Van Dyck; Lely; Franz Hals; Turner. No
moderns.</p>

<p>Miss Standing frowned at the pictures; she thought
them hideous and gloomy and depressing. She hated
the whole room. But when she began to think of what
she would do to it to make it look different, she got the
sort of feeling that there would be something almost
sacrilegious about doing anything to it at all. A pink
carpet now, and a white wallpaper to cover up all that
dark wood. It was silly to feel as if she had laughed in
church; but that was the sort of feeling she got.</p>

<p>She consoled herself with a very succulent chocolate.
It had a nougat centre. The very sofa on which she was
sitting was like a sort of stage funeral pyre, all purple
and gold and silver.</p>

<p>‘I wonder what I shall look like in black. Some people
look so frightful in it. But that silly man who came
to the fete with the De Chauvignys said I ought to wear
it—he said it would flatter me very much. And of
course people always do say that fair women look nicer
in black than in anything else. It’s a frightfully dull
thing to look nice in.’</p>

<p>Miss Standing opened a little leather vanity case
which lay beside the box of chocolates. She took out a
powder puff and a tiny mirror and began to powder her
nose. The powder had a very strong scent of carnations.
A glance in the mirror never failed to have a cheering
effect. It is very difficult to go on being unhappy
when you can see that you have a skin of milk and roses,
golden brown hair with a natural wave, and eyes that
are much larger and bluer than those of any other girl
you know.</p>

<p>Margot Standing’s eyes really were rather remarkable.
They were of a very pale blue, and if they had
not been surrounded by ridiculously long black lashes
they might have spoilt her looks; as it was the contrast
of dark lashes and pale bright eyes gave her prettiness
a touch of exotic beauty. She was of middle height,
with a pretty, rather plump figure, and a trick of
falling from one graceful pose into another. She wore a
pleated skirt of blue serge and a white woollen jumper,
both very plain; but the white wool was the softest
Angora, and the serge skirt had come from a famous
house in Paris.</p>

<p>A door at the far end of the room was opened.
William, the stupidest of the footmen, murmured something
inarticulate, and Mr James Hale came slowly
across the Persian carpet. Margot had never seen him
before. He was her father’s lawyer and that sounded
dull enough; but she thought he looked even duller
than that—so very stiff, so very tall, so narrow in the
shoulder, and so hairless about the brow. She said
‘Ouf!’ to herself as she got up rather languidly to meet
him.</p>

<p>Mr Hale had a limp, cold hand. He said ‘How do
you do, Miss Standing?’ and cleared his throat. Then
Margot sat down, and he sat down, and there was a
silence, during which Mr Hale laid the dispatch-case
he had been carrying upon a chair at his side and proceeded
to open it.</p>

<p>He looked up to find a box of chocolates under his
nose.</p>

<p>‘Do have one. The long ones are hard, but the round
ones are a dream.’</p>

<p>‘No thank you,’ said Mr Hale.</p>

<p>Margot took one of the round ones herself. She had
eaten so many chocolates already that it was necessary
to crunch it quickly in order to get the flavour. She
crunched it, and Mr Hale waited disapprovingly until
she had finished. He wished to offer her his condolences
upon her father’s death, and it appeared to
him in the highest degree unseemly that he should do so
whilst she was eating chocolates.</p>

<p>As she immediately replaced the chocolate by
another, he abandoned the condolences altogether and
plunged into business.</p>

<p>‘I have come, Miss Standing, to ask you if you have
any knowledge of the whereabouts of Mr Standing’s
will.’</p>

<p>Margot shook her head.</p>

<p>‘Why, how on earth should I?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know. Your father might have spoken to you
on the subject.’</p>

<p>‘But I haven’t seem him for three years.’</p>

<p>‘So long as that?’</p>

<p>Miss Standing nodded.</p>

<p>‘He was very seldom here for the holidays, anyhow,
and the last three years he was always in America, or
Germany, or Italy or some of those places.’</p>

<p>‘Not Switzerland? You were at school in Switzerland,
I believe.’</p>

<p>‘Never Switzerland,’ declared Miss Standing taking
another chocolate.</p>

<p>‘Did he ever write to you about his will?’</p>

<p>Margot’s eyes opened to their fullest extent.</p>

<p>‘Good gracious no! Why, he practically never wrote
to me at all.’</p>

<p>‘That,’ said Mr Hale, ‘is unfortunate. You see, Miss
Standing, we are in a difficulty. Your father’s affairs
have been in our hands for the last fifteen years. But it
was my father who had full knowledge of them. I know
that he and the late Mr Standing were upon terms of
considerable intimacy; and if my father was still with
us, the whole matter would probably be cleared up in a
few minutes.’</p>

<p>‘Isn’t your father with you?’</p>

<p>Mr Hale cleared his throat and fingered a black tie.</p>

<p>‘My father died a month ago.’</p>

<p>‘Oh,’ said Miss Standing. Then she paused, leaned
forward with a sudden graceful change of attitude, and
said, ‘Nobody’s told me anything about Papa. M’amselle
said she didn’t know—only what was in the
telegram, you know. You sent it, didn’t you? And so I
don’t really know anything at all.’</p>

<p>‘Mr Standing died very suddenly,’ said Mr Hale.
‘He was in his yacht off Majorca.’</p>

<p>Margot repeated the name.</p>

<p>‘Where is Majorca?’</p>

<p>Mr Hale informed her. He also put her in possession
of what he termed ‘the sad particulars’ of her father’s
death. It appeared that the yacht had been caught in a
heavy gale, and that Mr Standing, who refused to leave
the deck, had been washed overboard.</p>

<p>Mr Hale at this point offered his belated condolences,
after which he cleared his throat and added:</p>

<p>‘Unfortunately we are quite unable to trace any will,
or to obtain any evidence that would lead us to suppose
that he had ever made one.’</p>

<p>‘Does it matter?’ asked Margot indifferently.</p>

<p>Mr Hale frowned. ‘It matters a good deal to you, Miss
Standing.’</p>

<p>‘Does it?’</p>

<p>‘I am afraid that it does.’</p>

<p>‘But I’m his daughter anyway. Why should it matter
about a will? There’s only me, isn’t there?’ Her tone
was still indifferent. Mr Hale was an old fuss-pot. He
wasn’t a man at all; he was just a suit of black clothes
and a disapproving frown. She said with sudden
irrelevance: ‘Please, I want some money. I haven’t got
any. I bought the chocolates with my last bean. I made
M’amselle stop the taxi whilst I rushed in and got them.
Everything was so frightfully dismal I felt I should
expire if I didn’t have chocs—it takes me that way, you
know.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale took no notice of this. Instead, he asked,
with a gravity that was almost severe.</p>

<p>‘Do you remember your mother at all?’</p>

<p>‘No—of course not. I was only two.’</p>

<p>‘When she died?’</p>

<p>‘I suppose so.’</p>

<p>‘Miss Standing, can you tell me your mother’s
maiden name?’</p>

<p>She shook her head.</p>

<p>‘Come! Surely you must know it!’</p>

<p>‘I don’t.’ She hesitated and then added, ‘I think I
was called after her.’</p>

<p>‘Yes? What are your names?’</p>

<p>‘I’ve only got one. I think I was christened Margaret,
and I think perhaps it was my mother’s name. I’ve
always been called Margot.’</p>

<p>‘Miss Standing, did your father never speak about
your mother?’</p>

<p>‘No, he didn’t. I keep telling you he practically never
spoke to me at all. He was always frightfully busy. He
never <span class='it'>talked</span> to me.’</p>

<p>‘Then what makes you think you were called after
your mother?’</p>

<p>A slight blush made Miss Standing prettier than
before.</p>

<p>‘There was a picture that he kept locked. You know—the
sort with doors and a keyhole, and a miniature
inside. I always wanted to know what was in it.’</p>

<p>‘Well?’</p>

<p>Miss Standing shut her lips tightly.</p>

<p>‘I don’t know that I ought to tell you,’ she said with
an air of virtue.</p>

<p>‘I think you <span class='it'>must</span> tell me,’ said Mr Hale.</p>

<p>Something in his voice frightened her. She drew back,
looked at him out of startled eyes, and began to tell him
in a hurrying, uncertain voice.</p>

<p>‘I wasn’t supposed to go into the study. But one
evening I went because I thought he was out. And he
wasn’t. And when I heard him coming I had only just
time to get behind the curtains. It was frightful, because
I thought he was never going to go away, and I thought
I should be there all night.’</p>

<p>‘Yes? Go on.’</p>

<p>‘He wrote letters, and he walked up and down. And
then he gave a sort of groan, and I was so frightened I
looked out. And he was opening the picture. He opened
it with a little key off his watch-chain. And when he’d
opened it he went on looking at it for simply ages. And
once he gave another groan, and he said “Margaret”
twice in a sort of whisper.’</p>

<p>‘Quite so,’ said Mr Hale.</p>

<p>The colour rushed into Margaret’s cheeks.</p>

<p>‘Why do you say that, just as if I was telling you
about the weather, instead of a frightfully secret,
romantic sort of thing like I <span class='it'>was</span> telling you about?’</p>

<p>‘My dear Miss Standing!’</p>

<p>‘It was frightfully thrilling.’</p>

<p>‘Did you see the picture?’</p>

<p>‘N-no. Well. I just got a peep at it—when he turned
round you know.’</p>

<p>‘Yes?’</p>

<p>‘It was a miniature, and it had little diamonds all
round it. They sparkled like anything, and I could just
see that she was fair like me. And that’s all. I just saw
her for a moment. She was awfully pretty.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale cleared his throat.</p>

<p>‘There is, of course, no evidence to show that the
miniature was a portrait of your mother.’</p>

<p>‘Why, of course it was!’</p>

<p>‘It may have been. May I ask if the picture is in the
house?’</p>

<p>‘He always took it away with him. Perhaps it’s on
the yacht.’</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid it went overboard with him. The steward
spoke of a portrait such as you describe; he said Mr
Standing carried it about with him. Now, Miss Standing,
you are quite sure that you have no knowledge of
your mother’s maiden name?’</p>

<p>‘I told you I hadn’t.’</p>

<p>‘Or where your father met her?’</p>

<p>Margot shook her head.</p>

<p>‘You don’t know where they were married?’</p>

<p>‘No. I don’t know anything at all—I told you I
didn’t.’</p>

<p>‘Do you know where you were born?’</p>

<p>‘N-no. At least—No, I don’t know.’</p>

<p>‘What were you going to say? You were going to say
something.’</p>

<p>‘Only—no, I don’t know anything—only I don’t
think I was born in England.’</p>

<p>‘Ah! Can you tell me why?’</p>

<p>‘He said—it was long ago when I was a little girl—he
said, talking about himself, that he was born in
Africa. And I said “Where was I born?” And he said
“A long way from here”. So I thought perhaps I wasn’t
born in England.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale made the clicking noise with his tongue
which is generally written ‘Tut-tut!’ It expressed contempt
for this reminiscence. As evidence it simply didn’t
exist. He cleared his throat more portentously than
before.</p>

<p>‘Miss Standing, if no will is found, and no certificate
of your mother’s marriage or of your own birth is forthcoming,
your position becomes extremely serious.’</p>

<p>Margot paused with a chocolate on its way to her
mouth.</p>

<p>‘Why does it become serious? I’m Papa’s daughter.’</p>

<p>‘There is no proof even of that,’ said Mr Hale.</p>

<p>Margot burst out laughing.</p>

<p>‘Oh!’ she said. ‘How frightfully funny that sounds!
Why everyone knows I’m his daughter! How frightfully
funny you are! Who do you think I am, if I’m not
Margot Standing? Why, it’s too silly!’</p>

<p>Mr Hale frowned.</p>

<p>‘Miss Standing, this is a very serious matter, and I
beg that you will treat it seriously. I do not believe that
Mr Standing made a will. I know that he had not made
one six weeks ago, for he paid my father a visit on the
twentieth of August, and after he had gone my father
told me that he had been urging upon Mr Standing the
necessity of making his will. My father then used these
words: “It is a very strange thing,” he said, “that a man
in Mr Standing’s circumstances should have deferred
such a simple and necessary action as the making of a
will. And in his daughter’s peculiar circumstances he
certainly owes it to her to make sure of her provision.”
Now, Miss Standing, those are the exact words my
father used, and I take them to mean that he was
cognizant of some irregularity in your position.’</p>

<p>Margot opened her eyes very wide indeed.</p>

<p>‘What on earth do you mean?’</p>

<p>‘In the absence of any information about your
mother, and in the light of what my father said—’</p>

<p>‘Good gracious! What <span class='it'>do</span> you mean?’</p>

<p>‘I mean,’ said Mr Hale, ‘that it is possible that there
was no marriage.’</p>

<p>‘But good gracious, there’s <span class='it'>me</span>!’ said Miss Standing.</p>

<p>‘It is possible that you are illegitimate.’</p>

<p>Miss Standing gazed at him in silence. After a
moment she repeated the word illegitimate in a
tentative way; it seemed to touch a chord. She
brightened visibly and said in a tone full of interest.</p>

<p>‘Like William the Conqueror—and all those sons of
Charles II?’</p>

<p>‘Quite so,’ said Mr Hale.</p>

<p>‘How <span class='it'>frightfully</span> thrilling!’ exclaimed Miss Standing.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter VI</h1></div>

<p>When Mr Hale had finished explaining the exact legal
position of an illegitimate daughter whose father had
died intestate, Miss Standing’s eyes were round with
indignation.</p>

<p>‘I never heard anything so frightfully unjust in all
my life,’ she said firmly.</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid that doesn’t alter the law.’</p>

<p>‘What’s the good of women having the vote then? I
thought all those frightful unjust laws were going to be
altered at once when women got the vote. Miss Clay
always said so.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale had never heard of Miss Clay, who was in
fact an undermistress at Mme Mardon’s. He himself
had always been opposed to women’s suffrage.</p>

<p>‘Do you mean to say’—Miss Standing sat bolt
upright with her plump hands clasped on her blue serge
knee—‘do you actually mean to say that I don’t get
anything?’</p>

<p>‘You are not legally entitled to anything.’</p>

<p>‘How absolutely disgraceful! Do you mean to say
that Papa had millions and millions, and I don’t get any
of it at all? Who gets it if I don’t? I suppose somebody
does get it. Or does Government just <span class='it'>steal</span> it all?’</p>

<p>‘Your cousin, Mr Egbert Standing, is the heir-at-law.
He will—er—doubtless consider the propriety of
making you an allowance.’</p>

<p>Miss Standing sprang to her feet.</p>

<p>‘Egbert! You’re joking—you <span class='it'>must</span> be joking!’</p>

<p>Mr Hale looked the offence which he felt.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Really</span>, Miss Standing!’</p>

<p>Margot stamped her foot.</p>

<p>‘I don’t believe a single word of it. Papa didn’t even
like Egbert. He said he was a parasite. I remember
quite well, because I didn’t know what the word meant,
and I asked him, and he made me look it up in the
dictionary. And he said he didn’t know what he’d done
to deserve having Egbert for a nephew. He said it was
a great pity someone hadn’t drowned his brother
Robert when he was a baby, because then he couldn’t
have had Egbert. That’s what Papa said, and do you
suppose he’d want his money, and all his things, and his
pictures to go to someone he felt like that about? Papa
simply adored those horrible gloomy pictures, and he’d
hate Egbert to have them. Egbert adores them too—I
can’t think why—and that used to make Papa angrier
than anything else. Aren’t people funny?’</p>

<p>When Mr Hale had taken his leave, Margot continued
her letter to Stephanie.</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p>Oh, Stephanie, he’s been! Mr Hale, the lawyer, I
mean. He’s the most frightful old stiff, with the sort
of boring voice that makes you go to sleep in church
when a parson has it. Only I didn’t go to sleep,
because he was saying the most frightfully devastating
sort of things. There are a whole heap of the most
frightful family secrets, and he says he thinks I’m
illegitimate like the people in history. And I didn’t
know anyone ever was except in history books. But
he says he thinks I am, because he doesn’t think my
father was ever married to my mother. And I don’t
understand about it, but he says there isn’t any certificate
of their being married, and there isn’t any
certificate of my being born. And doesn’t that just
show how stupid the whole thing is? Because if I
hadn’t been born, I shouldn’t be here. So I can’t see
what on earth anyone wants a certificate for. And he
says I shan’t have any money ...</p>

</div>

<p>Mr Hale returned to his office, where he presently
interviewed Mr Egbert Standing. He had not met him
before, and he looked at him now with some disfavour.
Mr Hale did not like fat young men: he did not like
young men who lolled; he disapproved of bow ties with
loose ends, and of scented cigarettes. He regarded the
curl in Egbert’s hair with well-founded suspicion. For a
short moment he shared a sentiment with Miss Margot
Standing—he did not like Egbert. The young clerk
who took notes in the corner did not like him either.</p>

<p>Everything else apart, Mr Egbert Standing was a
most difficult person to do business with. He lolled and
yawned, and ran his fingers through the artificial waves
of his mouse-coloured hair. He had a round featureless
face with light eyes, light lashes, and no eyebrows. Mr
Hale disliked him very much indeed. It seemed impossible
to get him to take any interest either in Miss
Standing’s predicament or his own position as heir-at-law.</p>

<p>Mr Hale repeated Mr Hale senior’s remarks very
much as he had repeated them to Margot.</p>

<p>‘My father left me in no doubt that there was some
irregularity in Miss Standing’s position. He pressed Mr
Standing to make a will, but Mr Standing put the
matter aside. I am quite sure that my father knew more
than he told me. I believe that he was in Mr Standing’s
confidence. May I ask whether your uncle ever spoke
to you on the matter?’</p>

<p>Egbert lolled and yawned.</p>

<p>‘I believe he did.’</p>

<p>‘You believe he did!’</p>

<p>‘I have some slight recollection—I—er—I’m not a
business man. I—er—don’t take much interest in
business.’</p>

<p>‘Can you tell me what your uncle said?’</p>

<p>Egbert ran his hands through his hair.</p>

<p>‘I—er—really I have a very poor memory.’</p>

<p>‘Mr Standing, this is a very important matter. Do
you assert that your uncle spoke to you in such a sense
as to lead you to suppose that your cousin was
illegitimate?’</p>

<p>‘Something of that sort.’ Egbert’s voice was languid
in the extreme.</p>

<p>‘What did he say?’</p>

<p>‘I—er—really can’t remember. I don’t take much
interest in family matters.’</p>

<p>‘You must have some recollection.’</p>

<p>‘My uncle was, I believe, excited—I seem to
remember that. He was, in fact, annoyed—with
me—yes, I think it was with me. And I have some
recollection of his saying—’ Egbert paused and regarded
his right thumb-nail critically.</p>

<p>‘Yes? What did he say?’</p>

<p>‘I really don’t remember exactly. It was something
about his will.’</p>

<p>‘Yes? That is important.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t remember really what he said. But he
seemed annoyed. And it was something about making
his will, because he’d be hanged if he’d let the property
come to me. But he didn’t make a will after all, did he?’</p>

<p>‘We haven’t been able to find one. Was that all he
said, Mr Standing?’</p>

<p>‘Oh no there was a lot more—about my cousin, you
know.’</p>

<p>‘What did he say about your cousin?’</p>

<p>Egbert yawned.</p>

<p>‘I didn’t take any interest in her, I’m afraid.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale strove for patience.</p>

<p>‘What did your uncle say about his daughter’s
position?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t remember,’ said Egbert vaguely. ‘Something
about it’s being irregular—something like he said
before, when he wrote to me.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale sat bolt upright.</p>

<p>‘Your uncle <span class='it'>wrote</span> to you about his daughter’s
position?’</p>

<p>Egbert shook his head.</p>

<p>‘He wrote to me about the club I was putting up for—said
he’d blackball me.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale tapped on the table.</p>

<p>‘You said he wrote to you about his daughter.’</p>

<p>‘No, he wrote to me about blackballing me for the
club. He just mentioned his daughter.’</p>

<p>‘In a letter of that sort? <span class='it'>Mr Standing!</span>’</p>

<p>‘Come to think of it, it wasn’t that letter at all. I told
you my memory was awfully bad.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, it was another letter? And what did he say?’</p>

<p>‘I really can’t remember,’ said Egbert in an exhausted
voice.</p>

<p>‘Have you got that letter—did you keep it?’</p>

<p>Egbert brightened a little.</p>

<p>‘I might have it, but I don’t know—I’m so awfully
careless about letters. I just leave them about, you
know, and sometimes my man throws them away, and
sometimes he doesn’t. I could ask him.’</p>

<p>‘He’d be hardly likely to remember, but perhaps you
will have a search made.’</p>

<p>‘He reads all the letters,’ said Egbert thoughtfully.
‘He <span class='it'>might</span> remember.’</p>

<p>Years of self-control do not go for nothing. Mr Hale
merely pressed his lips together for a moment before
saying:</p>

<p>‘Will you kindly ask him to make a thorough
search? This letter may be a very important piece of
evidence. Indeed, if it contains Mr Standing’s own
admission that his daughter’s birth was irregular, the
whole question would be settled.’ He paused, and
added, ‘In your favour.’</p>

<p>‘I suppose it would,’ said Egbert vaguely.</p>

<p>Mr Hale shuffled some papers.</p>

<p>‘It is, perhaps, a little premature to raise the point,
but if you succeed as heir-at-law, you will, I presume,
be prepared to consider the question of some allowance
to your cousin. I mention this now, because if we had
your assurance on this point, we should be prepared to
make her a small advance. She appears to be entirely
without money.’</p>

<p>‘Does she?’</p>

<p>‘Entirely. She in fact asked me for some money to go
on with only this afternoon.’</p>

<p>‘Did she?’</p>

<p>‘I am telling you that she did, and I should be glad
to have your views on the subject of an allowance.’</p>

<p>Egbert yawned.</p>

<p>‘I don’t go in for having views. Art is what interests
me—my little collections—a bit of china—a miniature a
print—<span class='it'>Art</span>.’</p>

<p>‘Mr Standing, I must really ask you whether you are
prepared to guarantee a small allowance to your
cousin.’</p>

<p>‘Why should I?’</p>

<p>Mr Hale explained.</p>

<p>‘If you succeed to the late Mr Standing’s fortune, you
will be a very wealthy man.’</p>

<p>Egbert shook his head again.</p>

<p>‘Not after everybody’s had their pickings,’ he said.</p>

<p>Mr Hale understood him to refer to the death duties.</p>

<p>‘There will be a good deal left,’ he said drily. ‘An
allowance to your cousin—’</p>

<p>For the third time Egbert shook his head.</p>

<p>‘Nothing doing. If there’s a will, or if it turns out that
my uncle really married her mother, would she make
me an allowance? <span class='it'>Not much.</span>’</p>

<p>‘The positions are hardly analogous.’</p>

<p>‘There’s nothing doing,’ said Egbert—‘not in the
way of an allowance. Someone—’ he ran his hand
through his hair—‘someone suggested we might get
married. What do you think of that?’</p>

<p>‘It is rather a question of what Miss Standing would
think of it.’</p>

<p>‘Why? It would put her all right, wouldn’t it? I
thought it was rather a bright suggestion myself—puts
us both right, don’t you see? If there’s a will or a certificate
it makes it all right for me. And if there isn’t a
will or a certificate, it makes it all right for her. I
thought it was quite a bright suggestion.’</p>

<p>‘It would certainly be a provision for Miss Standing.’</p>

<p>‘Or for me,’ said Egbert.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter VII</h1></div>

<p>That evening Mr Archie Millar fulfilled his deferred
dinner engagement. He and Charles had a small table
in a corner of the huge dining-room of The Luxe.
Archie was in very good form—full of virtue, full of
bonhomie, full of real affection for Charles.</p>

<p>‘I am The Virtuous Nephew out of <span class='it'>Tracts for Tiny
Tots</span>. This is the seventeenth time this year that I have
been summoned to my Aunt Elizabeth’s death-bed.
She’s no end bucked because I always come. She isn’t
goin’ to die for the next hundred years or so, but it
keeps the old dear no end amused to go on sendin’ for
me, and alterin’ her will, and givin’ good advice all
round. She always tells me about all my little faults and
failin’s, and I say “Righto” and she’s no end bucked.
Her doctor says it’s a splendid tonic. But I wish she
didn’t always send for me when I’m dinin’ with a pal.’</p>

<p>Charles was debating the question of just how much
he was going to tell Archie. Margaret—hang Margaret!
She did nothing but get in the way. He frowned and
broke in on Archie’s flow of conversation with an
abrupt question:</p>

<p>‘Tell me about the Pelhams. Are they still at 16
George Street?’</p>

<p>Archie laid down his fish-fork.</p>

<p>‘Haven’t you heard?’</p>

<p>‘Not a word since I left.’</p>

<p>‘Mrs Pelham died six months ago.’</p>

<p>Charles felt shocked. Margaret adored her mother.
If he had sometimes thought she adored her too much,
he admitted the temptation. Esther Pelham, beautiful,
emotional, with a charm as potent as it was difficult to
define, and never lacked adorers. Charles himself had
bent the knee. Unfair, therefore, to complain if
Margaret did so too. He was shocked, and showed it.</p>

<p>‘Poor old Freddy was awfully cut up. Bit of a bore
Freddy Pelham, but everyone’s awfully sorry for him
now—no end of a facer for him after takin’ her abroad
and all—rotten for him comin’ home alone, poor chap.’</p>

<p>‘Did she die abroad?’</p>

<p>Archie nodded.</p>

<p>‘Freddy took her off for a long voyage. No one thought
she was really ill. Beastly for poor little Freddy comin’
home alone.’</p>

<p>Charles told himself just what he thought of an
idiotic reluctance to speak Margaret’s name. He spoke
it now:</p>

<p>‘Wasn’t Margaret with them?’</p>

<p>‘No—it was an awful shock for her.’</p>

<p>Charles prodded himself again.</p>

<p>‘She’s married, I suppose?’</p>

<p>‘Margaret! Who told you that yarn?’</p>

<p>‘No one. I just thought she’d be married.’</p>

<p>‘Well, she isn’t—or she wasn’t last time I saw her, and
that was about ten days ago. She isn’t livin’ with Freddy,
you know.’</p>

<p>‘Why isn’t she?’</p>

<p>‘Nobody knows. Girls are so dashed independent
nowadays. She went off on her own when Freddy took
her mother abroad—and she’s stayed on her own ever
since—works for her livin’, and doesn’t look as if it
agreed with her. I think it’s a pity myself.’ He looked at
Charles apologetically. ‘I always <span class='it'>liked</span> Margaret, you
know.’</p>

<p>Charles laughed.</p>

<p>‘So did I. What’s she doing?’</p>

<p>‘Job in a shop—low screw, long hours. Rotten show
I should call it. Fancy workin’ when you don’t have to.
Girls don’t know when they’re well off.’</p>

<p>‘Where’s she living?’</p>

<p>‘She told me,’ said Archie, ‘but I’m hanged if I
remember. Sort of minute flat affair. She had a little
money from her own father, didn’t she?’</p>

<p>‘Yes—nothing to speak of.’</p>

<p>‘You’re such a beastly plutocrat!’</p>

<p>‘She couldn’t live on it.’</p>

<p>‘She is livin’ on it, plus a pound a week.’</p>

<p>Charles exclaimed:</p>

<p>‘A pound a week!’</p>

<p>‘That’s her screw.’</p>

<p>‘Impossible!’</p>

<p>‘I told you you were a beastly plutocrat. Pound a
week’s her market value. She told me so herself.’</p>

<p>‘It’s sweating! What’s her job?’</p>

<p>‘Tryin’ on hats for ugly old women who can’t face
’emselves in the glass. Margaret puts on the hat, the old
woman thinks she looks a bit of a daisy in it, pays five
or ten guineas, and goes away as pleased as Punch. Give
you my word that’s how it’s done. Amazin’—isn’t it?’</p>

<p>Charles frowned.</p>

<p>‘What’s the shop?’</p>

<p>‘Place called Sauterelle in Sloane Street—frightfully
smart and exclusive.’</p>

<p>Charles detached himself with a jerk from a vision of
Margaret trying on hats for other people.</p>

<p>‘The Hula-Bula Indians say that a vain woman is like
an empty egg-shell,’ he observed.</p>

<p>‘Women are all vain,’ said Archie. ‘I only once met
one that wasn’t, and I give you my word she was a grim
proposition. You should see my Aunt Elizabeth’s
night-caps. By the way she’s just made a will leavin’
every farthin’ to a home for decayed parrots. She says
the lot of parrots who outlive their devoted mistresses is
enough to make a walrus weep. She says she feels a call
to provide for their indigent old age. I shall have to
marry an heiress—I see it loomin’. I think I’d better
make the runnin’ with the Standing girl before there
are too many starters.’</p>

<p>‘Who’s the Standing girl?’</p>

<p>Archie very nearly dropped his knife and fork.</p>

<p>‘My dear old bean, don’t you read the evenin’
papers? Old man Standing was a multi-millionaire who
got washed overboard in one of the late weather
spasms in the Mediterranean. Beastly place the
Mediterranean—nasty cold wind, nasty choppy sea—draughty
sort of place. Well, he got washed overboard;
and they can’t find any will, and he’s got an only
daughter, who scoops the lot. I’m just hesitatin’ on the
brink as it were, because they haven’t published her
photograph, and that probably means she’s a bit of a
nightmare—I mean, think of the photographs they do
publish. And my Aunt Elizabeth might alter her will
again any old day if her parrot bit her, or came out
with some of the swear words she thinks she’s broken
him of. She told me with tears in her eyes what a
reformed bird he was. But you can’t ever tell with
parrots.’</p>

<p>Charles had not been attending. He had decided that
he would tell Archie just what had happened the other
night; only he would leave Margaret out of it. He interrupted
an ingenious plan for priming the parrot with
something really hair-raising in the way of an expletive.</p>

<p>‘The other night, Archie, when you didn’t come, I
walked down to have a look at the old house.’</p>

<p>‘Did you? Did you go in?’</p>

<p>‘Anyone might have walked in,’ said Charles drily.
‘The door into the alley-way was open, and the garden
door was open too. I walked in, and I walked upstairs,
and I found a cheery sort of criminal conspiracy carrying
on like a house on fire in my mother’s sitting-room.’</p>

<p>‘I say, is this a joke?’</p>

<p>‘No, it isn’t. I saw a light under the door, and I
heard voices. You remember the cupboard where we
used to play, across the room of the passage between
the bedroom and sitting-room?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, of course.’</p>

<p>‘I got in there and looked through the hole we used
to keep corked up, and there was a gentleman in a grey
rubber mask and gloves giving orders to a very pretty
lot of scoundrels.’</p>

<p>‘Charles, you <span class='it'>are</span> jokin’.’</p>

<p>‘I’m not—it happened.’</p>

<p>‘What were they doin’—’</p>

<p>‘Well, I rather gathered they’d destroyed a will, and
it wouldn’t very much surprise me to hear that they’d
made away with the man who’d made it. They seemed
to be thinking about murdering his daughter if another
will turned up, or some certificate—I didn’t quite
understand about that.’</p>

<p>‘Charles, you don’t mean to say you’re serious?’</p>

<p>‘Absolutely.’</p>

<p>‘You weren’t drunk, and you weren’t dreamin’?’</p>

<p>‘I was not.’</p>

<p>Archie heaved a sigh.</p>

<p>‘Why on earth wasn’t I there? What did you do?—bound
from your place of concealment hissin’ “All is
discovered”, or what?’</p>

<p>‘I went on listening,’ said Charles. He proceeded to
give Archie a very accurate account of the things he
had listened to and the things he had seen. He left
Margaret Langton out of the story, and in consequence
found himself making rather a poor figure at the finish.</p>

<p>‘You <span class='it'>didn’t</span> bound from your place of concealment!’
Archie’s tone was incredulous.</p>

<p>‘No, I didn’t.’</p>

<p>‘You let them get away and just trickled round to the
police station?’</p>

<p>‘Well—no,’ said Charles, ‘I didn’t go to the police
station.’</p>

<p>‘Why didn’t you?’</p>

<p>‘Because I didn’t want to.’ He paused. ‘As a matter
of fact I used to know one of the crowd pretty well, and
I thought I’d keep the police out of it if I could.’</p>

<p>Archie considered this.</p>

<p>‘I say, that’s bad! I mean destroyin’ wills and
plannin’ to murder people isn’t the sort of game you
expect to find your pals mixed up in—is it? Did you
know the fellow well?’</p>

<p>‘Fairly well,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>‘Well, d’you know him well enough to put it to him
that it isn’t exactly the sort of show to be mixed up in?’</p>

<p>‘That’s what I was thinking of doing.’</p>

<p>‘I see. Then there’s the girl. They won’t be getting
up to any murderin’ games for the moment, I take it.’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Charles, ‘that was only if this certificate
turned up.’</p>

<p>‘And you don’t know what it is? And for all you
know it may be turnin’ up any day of the week. Pity
you don’t know her name—isn’t it?’</p>

<p>‘Her Christian name is Margot. I heard that.’</p>

<p>Archie upset his coffee.</p>

<p>‘Charles, you’ve been pullin’ my leg.’</p>

<p>‘I haven’t.’</p>

<p>‘Honest Injun?’</p>

<p>‘Honest Injun.’</p>

<p>‘Not about the name? You swear you’re not pullin’
my leg about that?’</p>

<p>‘No, I’m not. Why should you think I am?’</p>

<p>Archie leaned across the table and dropped his
voice.</p>

<p>‘You swear the girl was called Margot? You’re
sure?’</p>

<p>‘Positive. Why?’</p>

<p>‘Because that’s the name of the girl I was talkin’
about—the Standing girl—old Standing’s daughter.’</p>

<p>‘Margot?’</p>

<p>‘Margot Standing,’ said Archie in a solemn whisper.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter VIII</h1></div>

<p>Mr Hale was considerably annoyed next morning by
the arrival of Mr Egbert Standing and a large leather
suitcase full of unsorted papers. One of Mr Hale’s clerks
brought in the suitcase and placed it on the floor,
whereupon Egbert with a wave of the hand commanded
him to open it.</p>

<p>‘It isn’t locked—I never lock things—you just slide
back those what-d’you-call-its.’</p>

<p>The clerk slid back the what-d’you-call-its and lifted
the top. A mask of crumpled paper met the eye.</p>

<p>‘There!’ said Egbert. ‘My man tells me that’s the lot.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale looked at the suitcase, and Mr Hale’s clerk
looked at Mr Hale. A large envelope marked Income
Tax lay across a pale blue note. Mr Hale sniffed. A
surprisingly vigorous scent of patchouli arose from
the suitcase. He suspected the pale blue note—income
tax officials do not use patchouli.</p>

<p>‘Go on—sort them,’ said Egbert in a tone of languid
encouragement.</p>

<p>‘I should have thought you would prefer to sort them
yourself.’</p>

<p>Egbert shook his head.</p>

<p>‘I couldn’t be bothered.’</p>

<p>‘Your private correspondence—’ began Mr Hale. He
eyed the pale blue note.</p>

<p>Egbert yawned.</p>

<p>‘I can’t be bothered. Let him get on with it.’</p>

<p>After receiving a nod from Mr Hale, the clerk proceeded
to get on with it. The contents of the suitcase
appeared to consist chiefly of unpaid bills. There was a
sprinkling of other scented notes—pink, mauve, and
brown. There were two sock-suspenders, an artificial
flower in a condition of extreme old age, a green satin
slipper with a gold heel, and several photographs of
damsels in brief skirts and a great many pearls.</p>

<p>‘Put the letters on one side, Cassels,’ said Mr Hale.
‘We’re looking for a letter in the late Mr Standing’s
hand. I don’t know if you remember it.’</p>

<p>‘I think I do, sir. Isn’t this his writing?’</p>

<p>Mr Hale took it, looked at Egbert, and inquired,</p>

<p>‘Do you wish me to read this? It seems to be part of a
letter from your uncle.’</p>

<p>‘Read away—out loud if you like—I’m sure I don’t
mind.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale turned the sheet in his hand, frowning.</p>

<p>‘There is nothing about Miss Standing here. I think
I will not—er—read it aloud.’</p>

<p>‘Is it the one about blackballing me for that club I
told you about?’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Mr Hale.</p>

<p>Egbert looked slightly puzzled.</p>

<p>‘What is it then?’</p>

<p>‘Mr Standing appears to have been refusing a request
for a loan.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, <span class='it'>that</span> one. He’s got a nasty way of putting it—hasn’t
he?’</p>

<p>Mr Cassels unfolded a piece of paper which had been
crumpled into a ball. Still on his knees, he turned and
laid it on the edge of the writing-table.</p>

<p>‘Am I to read this, Mr Standing?’</p>

<p>‘You can read them all—it doesn’t worry me. I can’t
be bothered myself.’</p>

<p>The letter was very badly creased indeed. Mr Hale
uttered an exclamation as his eye lighted upon the
address and the date. The paper was stamped with the
name of a hotel in Majorca, and the date was only a
fortnight old. He read the address aloud and repeated
the date; then glancing down the sheet, he spoke to the
young clerk still rummaging among bills.</p>

<p>‘That will do, Cassels. This is the letter we were
looking for.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale turned sharply upon Egbert.</p>

<p>‘This letter was written the day before your uncle
was drowned. It is, as far as we know, the last letter he
ever wrote. It is impossible to over-rate its importance.
How could you fail to realize this?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t take any interest in business,’ said Egbert. ‘I
told you I didn’t. I told you my line was Art.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale rapped the table.</p>

<p>‘You cannot possibly fail to realize the importance of
this letter.’</p>

<p>Egbert yawned.</p>

<p>‘I don’t know that I read it very carefully. My uncle’s
letters don’t interest me, you know.’</p>

<p>‘Mr Standing, I will ask you to listen attentively
whilst I read you this letter.’</p>

<p>Egbert sprawled in the big armchair with half-shut
eyes. It is possible that he listened attentively; but he
had all the appearance of being half asleep.</p>

<p>Mr Hale’s voice was sharp as he read from the
crumpled page:</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p class='line' style='text-align:left;margin-left:0em;'>My dear Egbert,</p>

<p>I will neither lend you any money, nor will I give
you any money. Your letter serves to remind me, not
for the first time, that I had better make my will and
have done with the chances to which Margot’s
irregular birth exposes the fortune which I have
laboured to build up. Even if she were legitimate, I
would not expose her to the risks involved in the
possession of so much money. I shall make a will as
soon as I return to England, and I advise you not to
expect too much from me. What you want is a good
hard bout of honest work.</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>E. Standing</p>

</div>

<p>‘It’s a rude letter—isn’t it?’ said Egbert sleepily. ‘I
remember I nearly tore it up.’</p>

<p>‘You would have been tearing up about three million
pounds if you had,’ said Mr Hale in his most impressive
voice.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter IX</h1></div>

<p>Charles Moray walked twenty yards up Sloane Street,
and then walked twenty yards down again. He continued
to do this. Across the street was a lighted window
with one hat on a stand and a piece of gold brocade
lying carelessly at the foot of a bright green bowl full of
golden fir-cones. Charles was aware that these things
were there, because he had stood in front of the window
and peered in; all that he could actually see from
across the road was a blur of light in the fog. He hoped
he would be able to see Margaret when she came out.</p>

<p>He went up close to a street lamp and looked at his
watch. It was past six o’clock and the fog was getting
thicker every minute. He crossed the street and again
began to walk up and down.</p>

<p>It was a quarter past six before Margaret came out.
He was only a couple of yards away, and even so, he
nearly missed her. There was a shadow that slipped
past him in the fog and was gone.</p>

<p>Charles ran after the shadow. He could not have said
how he knew that it was Margaret who had passed him;
he did not stop to think about that at all. He ran after
her, came in sight of the shadow, and kept pace with it,
a little behind.</p>

<p>He was in a strange mood. There came first the
quick certainty that this was Margaret. And then, like
a flood, this sense of her and of her nearness swept over
him. She walked before him; but if she had been in his
arms, as she once had been, he could not have felt her
more near. If he looked, he would see her very thoughts.
He told himself that all he had ever seen was a mirage—the
real Margaret had never shared a single thought
with him.</p>

<p>He had been quite sure that it was going to be immensely
interesting to meet her again; it had not
entered his head that he would be angry. Yet he had not
walked half a dozen yards behind her before he was as
angry as he had ever been in his life. He was angry in a
new way—angry with Margaret for earning her living,
angrier because she had mixed herself up in who knew
what ridiculous and criminal conspiracy, and angriest
of all because she had made him angry. Mixed with his
anger—curiosity. What was at the bottom of it? What
did it all mean? The explorer in him was most keenly
on the alert. He meant to get to the bottom of the
business.</p>

<p>Perhaps his step quickened a little; he was nearer her
than he had meant to be when they passed under a
street lamp. The light hung above it like a faint white
cloud.</p>

<p>He said, ‘How d’you do, Margaret?’ and said it
lightly and pleasantly. To Margaret Langton the voice
came out of the fog and out of the past. There was a
step that kept pace with her own. And then Charles
Moray said her name—<span class='it'>Charles</span>. She turned, a ghost in
a nimbus. The quick movement was Margaret, the rest
a blur.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Charles!</span>’</p>

<p>Her voice was unbelievably familiar; it might have
been some voice of his own speaking to him. It shook
him, and a hotter anger than before leapt in him.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Charles!</span> How dare you frighten me like that!’</p>

<p>‘Did I frighten you?’ He spoke smoothly and easily.</p>

<p>Margaret caught her breath.</p>

<p>‘I thought someone was following me. It’s horrible to
be followed in a fog.’</p>

<p>‘I was waiting for you, and I nearly missed you.
That ass Archie had forgotten your address, so I had to
try and catch you here.’</p>

<p>They walked on; the lamp receded. Margaret said,</p>

<p>‘Why did you want to—catch me?’</p>

<p>He shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p>‘I’ve been away. Perhaps you haven’t noticed. One
comes back, one sees one’s friends—’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Friends</span>—are we friends? I shouldn’t have thought
you would ever want to see me again.’</p>

<p>This was the old Margaret, fiercely untactful.
Charles leapt at the opening. He wanted to hit hard, to
hurt her as much as possible. He kept his indifferent
tone very successfully.</p>

<p>‘Why on earth shouldn’t I want to see you? After
all, we were friends for about ten years before we ever
thought of getting engaged. Wasn’t it ten years? We
were friends for ten years, and then we were engaged
for six months, and then—we stopped being engaged.
Well, the engagement being only an episode, it can be
just wiped out. You see?’</p>

<p>No woman likes to be told that she was only an
episode. Charles was pleasantly aware of this; aware
too that he had succeeded in piercing some armour of
defence.</p>

<p>She said, with a hot resentment, in her voice.</p>

<p>‘How can we be friends? How can you possibly
want to be friends with me?’</p>

<p>Charles laughed.</p>

<p>‘My dear girl, why not? Do let us be modern. These
things don’t last, you know. Do you expect me to be
tragic after four years? I was naturally a bit peeved at
the time. But one doesn’t go on being peeved.’ He
paused, then struck again and struck hard. ‘I’ve been
looking forward immensely to seeing you—but of course
I thought you would be married.’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Married! I!</span>’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Charles, ‘I didn’t suppose you turned me
down just for the fun of the thing. Naturally there was
someone else.’</p>

<p>Margaret turned on him, her head up.</p>

<p>‘Did you say that just to hurt? Or did you believe it?’</p>

<p>Charles laughed again.</p>

<p>‘A bit of both. I believed it all right.’</p>

<p>She made a sound—not a sigh or a sob, but a quick
angry breath.</p>

<p>‘Look here,’ said Charles, ‘I’ll put nearly all my
cards on the table if you like. I propose that we should
wash out the <span class='it'>episode</span> and revert to the <span class='it'>status quo ante</span>.
If you won’t do this, I shall naturally conclude that you
mind meeting me, that you find it embarrassing or
painful.’</p>

<p>Margaret was certainly very angry.</p>

<p>‘My dear Charles, doesn’t it occur to you that I might
simply be bored?’</p>

<p>‘No, it doesn’t. We could fight like fiends, and we
could hate each other like poison; but we could never
be bored. When can I come and see you?’</p>

<p>‘You can’t come and see me.’</p>

<p>‘Too embarrassing? Too painful?’</p>

<p>There was no answer. He thought he heard her catch
her breath again. He continued in a pleasant social
manner:</p>

<p>‘I was proposing, you know, to revert to the days
before the <span class='it'>episode</span>. You were ten, weren’t you, when
your people came to George Street? I seem to remember
that you didn’t mince your words in those days.
Why bother to mince them now? Why not revert—say
anything you like?’</p>

<p>Margaret said nothing; she walked without turning
her head. Charles walked beside her. He was sorry
there was a fog; he would have liked to see her face. He
gave her a moment; then he spoke again.</p>

<p>‘No words bad enough?’</p>

<p>There were no words at all.</p>

<p>‘When can I come and see you?’</p>

<p>Silence—the fog—a black slippery crossing—Basil
Street. They crossed, and passed through another patch
of hazy light.</p>

<p>‘You used not to sulk,’ said Charles meditatively.</p>

<p>She flung round on him then like an angry schoolgirl.</p>

<p>‘How <span class='it'>dare</span> you?’</p>

<p>Charles was immensely pleased.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Touche!</span>’ he said to himself; and then aloud, ‘I’m
sorry—I haven’t any manners. I’ve been deprived of
the refining influence of woman for four years, you
see. When can I come and see you?’</p>

<p>They had reached the Knightsbridge pavement, and
he stopped instinctively on its dark brink. It was very
dark, the lights of the crawling cars only just discernible,
the noise of the traffic a bewildering dull sound that
seemed to come from everywhere at once.</p>

<p>Charles stopped, but Margaret Langton never
hesitated; she walked straight on, and even as he
looked round for her she was lost in the shuffling,
whispering, hooting gloom. Charles plunged after her.
Someone swore, a hoarse voice shouted. ‘Where are
you gettin’ to?’ The hooter of a car went off right in his
ear, and his shoulder collided violently with somebody’s
driving-mirror. The next half-minute continued
to be like that, only more so.</p>

<p>He fetched up on the island in the middle of the road
with feelings of relief. The island was crowded. Under
the powerful light it was possible to see one’s next door
neighbour. Charles annoyed all the rest of the people
on the island by being neighbour to each of them in
turn. He trod on several toes, was prodded in the ribs
by a very powerful umbrella, and a number of people
asked him what he thought he was doing. As it was
impossible to explain that he was looking for Margaret,
he had to say he was sorry a good many times.</p>

<p>Margaret was not on the island. He came to a
standstill behind a broad blue serge back. A heavily
built man stood just in front of him. He wore a rough
blue coat of the peak-jacket style and had about his neck
a large khaki muffler—the sort of thing that one’s
aunts knitted stacks of during the war. The thought
passed through Charles’s mind and then pricked him so
sharply that he very nearly cried out. He had made the
same comparison before, within the last few days; and
he had made it about the same muffler. He had stared
at that blue serge back and that khaki comforter
before. He had stared through the knot-hole of his
mother’s cupboard and seen that lump shoulder and
that bullet head come into view as Number Forty, the
deaf janitor, opened the door to Grey Mask’s visitors.</p>

<p>He pushed against the man, hoping to see his face;
and as he did so, he said mechanically,</p>

<p>‘I beg your pardon.’</p>

<p>In a moment his interest was dashed. The man turned
half round and said,</p>

<p>‘Granted.’</p>

<p>Charles saw a square fresh-coloured face, clean-shaven,
and then the man turned again and stepped off
the island into the road. Charles stepped off too.</p>

<p>Forty was stone deaf. This man was not stone deaf.
He must have heard Charles say ‘I beg your pardon’,
because he immediately turned round and said
‘Granted’. He might have turned because Charles
pushed him; but you don’t say ‘Granted’ when someone
barges into you from behind. No, he must have heard.
Then he wasn’t Forty, because Forty was deaf. Grey
Mask said that Forty was deaf.</p>

<p>Charles considered what he knew of Forty. He was
Grey Mask’s janitor—in other words a villain who was
trusted by other villains. And Grey Mask said he was
deaf. To Charles he was merely a bullet head, a blue
serge coat, a pair of broad shoulders, and a khaki
muffler.</p>

<p>Charles inclined strongly to the evidence of his own
eyes. He followed the muffler. He followed it to the
corner and along twenty yards or so of pavement. Then
he followed it into a Hammersmith bus.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter X</h1></div>

<p>The bus went creaking and clanking on its way. It was
quite full, and it smelt very strongly of fog, petrol and
wet umbrellas. Charles sat opposite the man with the
muffler and looked at him curiously. He had a square,
fresh face and very blue eyes; he had the look of a man
who has followed the sea. Forty had been with Mr
Standing on his yacht. But Forty was deaf, and this
man wasn’t deaf.</p>

<p>Just on the impulse Charles leaned across and
addressed him.</p>

<p>‘Bad fog—isn’t it? I’m glad I’m not at sea.’</p>

<p>The man looked at Charles after a pleasant puzzled
fashion and shook his head.</p>

<p>‘Sorry, sir, but I’m deaf.’</p>

<p>Charles raised his voice:</p>

<p>‘I only said it was a bad fog.’</p>

<p>He shook his head again and smiled deprecatingly.</p>

<p>‘It’s no good, sir. Hill 60 going up was the last thing
I heard.’</p>

<p>The other people in the bus looked round with
interest. A fat woman in a brown velvet dress and stout
laced boots said, ‘What a shime!’</p>

<p>Charles sat back and closed his eyes. Grey Mask had
said Forty was deaf—and that this was Forty, Charles
had now no more doubt than that he himself was
Charles Moray; yet Forty, apologized to by a casual
stranger in a fog—no, let’s get it clearer, Forty taken
unawares—had answered a casual stranger’s apology.
But Forty in a crowded, lighted bus not only maintained
that he was stone deaf but produced a picturesque
reminiscence to account for it. What did it mean?</p>

<p>Charles thought that he would find out what it meant;
and when presently the man in the muffler got out of
the bus, Charles got out too.</p>

<p>‘The one point about this perfectly beastly weather,’
he explained to Archie over dinner, ‘is that you can
follow a fellow without his spotting you. I followed him
very successfully and tracked him to his lair. He appears
to be lodging at No. 5 Gladys Villas, Chiswick. The
house belongs to an old lady and her daughter who’ve
been there for about forty years—I found that out
at the grocer’s. But there I’m stuck. The old lady’s
name is Brown, and she’s the widow of a sea captain.
I could have found out lots more of that sort of thing.
But how am I going to find out the things I want to
know about Forty?’</p>

<p>‘Get a trained sleuth to do it,’ said Archie firmly.
‘That’s what they’re for. I can put you on to one if you
like.’</p>

<p>‘A good man?’</p>

<p>‘A sleuthess,’ said Archie impressively. ‘A perfect
wonder—has old Sherlock boiled.’</p>

<p>Charles frowned.</p>

<p>‘A <span class='it'>woman</span>?’</p>

<p>‘Well, a sleuthess. She’s not exactly what you’d call a
little bit of fluff, you know.’</p>

<p>‘What’s her name?’</p>

<p>‘Maud Silver.’</p>

<p>‘Mrs or Miss?’</p>

<p>‘My dear old bean!’</p>

<p>‘Well—which is she?’</p>

<p>‘Single as a Michaelmas daisy,’ said Archie.</p>

<p>‘But who is she? And why drag in a sleuthess when
there are lots of perfectly good sleuths?’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Archie, ‘I put my money on Maud. I
only saw her once, and she didn’t make my heart beat
any faster. I went to see her because my cousin
Emmeline Foster was in the dickens of a hole. She’d
done one of the silly sort of things women manage to
do—can’t imagine how they think of them myself. I
can’t give you the lurid details; but what it amounted to
was that she’d gone and lost the family jewels, and she
was shakin’ in her shoes for fear her mother-in-law
would find out. Well, little Maudie got them back. No
fuss, no scandal, no painful family scene—a <span class='it'>very</span> neat
piece of work. That’s only one story. I know half a
dozen more, because Emmeline just rushed round with
her mouth open tellin’ all her friends what a wonder
Maudie was, and all the friends who had private
scrapes of their own went and bleated to Maudie about
’em, and when Maudie had got ’em all straightened up
again, they came back and told Emmeline, and
Emmeline told me.’</p>

<p>Charles took down Miss Maud Silver’s address. If
she specialized in getting silly women out of messes, she
would just about suit his book. He put the address away
in his pocket-book, and as he looked up he caught sight
of Freddy Pelham dining at a table with Massiter, the
artist, and a large, dull, respectable couple whom
Charles did not know. Massiter had the air of a man
who is bored to the verge of coma. Freddy looked so
forlorn that Charles felt a genuine pang of pity.</p>

<p>Later, when he and Archie were going out, he found
himself almost touching Freddy in the doorway, and in
a moment Freddy was shaking him by the hand.</p>

<p>‘My dear fellow! You’re back—yes, you’re back!
Dear me, you’re back again!’</p>

<p>‘As you see,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>Freddy dropped the hand he had been shaking; his
little grey eyes looked deprecatingly at the young man
whom his step-daughter had jilted; his rather high and
plaintive voice became more plaintive still.</p>

<p>‘My dear fellow—you’re back! Pleased to see you—very
pleased to see you!’</p>

<p>‘I’m pleased to be back,’ said Charles cheerfully.</p>

<p>At another time it might have amused him to observe
Freddy’s embarrassment. He plunged straight into the
cause of it.</p>

<p>‘By the way, can you give me Margaret’s address?’</p>

<p>Freddy blinked.</p>

<p>‘Margaret’s <span class='it'>address</span>—er—<span class='it'>Margaret’s</span> address?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>Freddy blinked again.</p>

<p>‘You’ve heard that she’s deserted me,’ he said. ‘I
don’t know why girls can’t stay at home. But it seems to
take them all the same way. Now there’s Nora Canning—now
let me see, was it Nora? Or is Nora the married
one, and am I thinking of Nancy? Or is it Nancy
who is the married one? And who the deuce did she
marry? It wasn’t Monty Soames, and it wasn’t Rex
Fossiter. Now who <span class='it'>was</span> it she married? I know I was at
the wedding, because I remember they gave us deuced
bad champagne—and Esther couldn’t go, but
Margaret and I went—’ He broke off, and looked
down like a shy child. ‘You’ve heard about Esther?’</p>

<p>Charles felt horribly sorry for him.</p>

<p>‘Yes, I—heard. I can’t say how sorry I am. She—there
was something about her.’</p>

<p>Freddy wrung his hand.</p>

<p>‘I know, my boy, I <span class='it'>know</span>. No one like her—was
there? Can’t think what she ever saw in me. Well, well,
I’m glad to see you back, Charles. She always liked you
very much. I’d be sorry to think there was any sort of
feeling now you’ve come back.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, there isn’t.’</p>

<p>‘Bygones be bygones, eh? That’s right! Stupid to
keep things up—that’s what I’ve always said—what’s
the sense of keeping things up? I’ve always said that. I
remember now saying that twenty years ago to
Fennicker—no, if it was Fennicker it couldn’t have been
twenty years ago, because that Fennicker was in China
until 1914, unless I’m thinking of the other one—their
mothers married cousins you know—deuced pretty
women both of them—lovely shoulders. Women don’t
have shoulders now, eh? Nothing but bones—that’s
what I say—<span class='it'>scraggy</span>, my boy—and it don’t make them
look any younger—’</p>

<p>‘What about Margaret’s address?’ said Charles
quickly. If he had to wait whilst Freddy disentangled
the Fennickers for a few generations or so, he would do
so; but there seemed to be just a chance of escape;
Archie was punching him in the ribs. ‘What about
Margaret’s address?’</p>

<p>‘I thought she might have stayed with me,’ said
Freddy. ‘But I don’t want you to think we quarrelled—I
shouldn’t like anyone to think that.’</p>

<p>‘Can you give me her address?’</p>

<p>It took Charles another ten minutes to get it, and
Archie had reached groaning point before they finally
got away.</p>

<p>They walked the short distance to the show Archie
had insisted upon. The fog was still heavy. Charles
found himself thinking curiously and angrily about
Margaret. Where was she? What was she thinking?
What was she doing? He had a furious desire to know,
to break away from Archie and to walk to the address
which Freddy Pelham had given him.</p>

<p>At intervals during the evening that desire to know
what Margaret was doing swept over him again. If he
could have looked into Margaret’s room, he would have
seen nothing, because the room was dark. It was very
dark and very cold, because there was no light and no
fire.</p>

<p>Margaret Langton lay face downwards in front of
the cold hearth; her forehead rested upon her crossed
arms. The fire had gone out a long time ago. It was
hours since she had moved at all, but the hot, slow tears
went on soaking into the black stuff of her sleeve. Her
right arm was crossed over her left arm; her forehead
rested upon it. The stuff of her sleeve was quite wet
through.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XI</h1></div>

<p>Charles sat in Miss Maud Silver’s waiting-room. He
was not one of those who wait patiently. Having arrived
at ten o’clock, he was exasperated to find that he
was not the first upon the scene; a murmur of female
voices stimulated his annoyance. ‘Probably talking
millinery,’ was his embittered comment.</p>

<p>Then all of a sudden through the thin partition came
a sharp little cry of ‘<span class='it'>I can’t!</span>’ The cry had a quality
which did not suggest millinery. There was a silence;
and then the murmur of voices went on again.</p>

<p>It was almost half past ten before the inner door
opened and a woman came out. She kept her head
turned away and passed quickly out on to the landing.</p>

<p>Charles entered Miss Silver’s office with a good deal
of curiosity, and found himself in a small, light room,
very bare—furnished, to the first glance at any rate, by
a chair, a writing-table and Miss Silver herself. The
writing-table was immense, of the large old-fashioned
flat kind with drawers all round it; the top was piled
high with exercise-books of different colours very neatly
stacked.</p>

<p>Miss Silver sat in front of a pad of pink blotting-paper.
She was a little person with no features, no
complexion, and a great deal of tidy mouse-coloured
hair done in a large bun at the back of her head. She inclined
her head slightly, but did not offer to shake hands.</p>

<p>Charles introduced himself, mentioned Archie’s
name, mentioned Emmeline Foster’s name, and
received no indication that Miss Silver had any
recollection of either of them.</p>

<p>‘What can I do for you, Mr Moray?’ The voice was
rather a hesitating one; a quiet voice without tone.</p>

<p>Charles began to feel sorry he had come.</p>

<p>‘Well—I wanted some information.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver picked up a brown copy-book, wrote
Charles’s name at the head of a page, asked for and
added his address, and then inquired what sort of
information he wanted.</p>

<p>Charles did not mean to tell her very much—not at
first anyhow. He said,</p>

<p>‘I want information about a man who is lodging at 5
Gladys Villas, Chiswick. He’s a middle-aged man with
a fresh colour. I don’t know his name. I want to know
anything you can find out about him; and I most
particularly want to know whether he is really deaf.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver wrote in the copy-book. Then she asked,</p>

<p>‘Anything more?’</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Charles frowning. ‘I want to know something
about Mr Standing’s family affairs. You know
the man I mean—he’s been in all the papers.’</p>

<p>‘His affairs,’ said Miss Silver, ‘are largely public
property. I can tell you a good deal about them now.
He was washed overboard whilst he was yachting off
Majorca, and he didn’t leave any will. His immense
fortune will therefore be inherited by his only child. Her
name is Margot. She is just eighteen, and until a week
ago was at school in Switzerland. Was that what you
wanted to know?’</p>

<p>Charles shook his head.</p>

<p>‘Everyone knows that. I want news from day to day
of what is happening. I want to know who is in the
house with the girl—what she does—who her friends
are. I want to be told at once if she goes away, or if
there is any sudden development in her affairs. I’m
afraid it’s all rather indefinite; but I expect you can see
the sort of thing I want.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver had been using the right-hand page of the
brown copy-book; she now wrote something quickly on
the left. Then she said;</p>

<p>‘I see what you want. But you haven’t told me why
you want it.’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver smiled suddenly. The smile had the most
extraordinary effect upon her face; it was just as if an
expressionless mask had been lifted and a friendly,
pleasant face had looked out from behind it.</p>

<p>‘It’s no good, Mr Moray.’</p>

<p>Charles said, ‘I beg your pardon?’</p>

<p>The smile was still there.</p>

<p>‘I can’t take your case unless you’re going to trust
me. I can’t work for a client who only tells me snippets
and odds and ends. “Trust me all in all, or not at all” is
my motto. Tennyson is out of fashion, but I admire him
very much, and that is my motto.’</p>

<p>Charles looked at her with the suspicion of a
twinkle. What a Victorian little person! He became
aware of a half-knitted stocking on her lap, still needles
bristling. It seemed to him very appropriate. He
twinkled, and replied to her quotation with another:</p>

<p>‘The Taran-Tula Indians say that you may catch a
snake by the tail, but you should never trust a woman.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver looked sorry for the Taran-Tula Indians.</p>

<p>‘Poor ignorant heathens!’ she said; and then, ‘Of
course, if one has been very badly treated, it makes one
cautious. But I can’t take your case unless you are
frank with me. Frankness on your part—discretion on
mine.’</p>

<p>She picked up the stocking and began to knit, holding
the needles in the German way. After one round she
looked at Charles and smiled again.</p>

<p>‘Well, Mr Moray?’</p>

<p>Charles told her everything that he had told Archie
Millar, and came away wondering whether he had
made a fool of himself.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XII</h1></div>

<p>At a quarter to seven that same evening Charles Moray
rang the bell of Miss Langton’s tiny flat. Margaret
opened the door and stood facing him across the
threshold.</p>

<p>‘Charles!’ Her voice betrayed no pleasure.</p>

<p>She had left the sitting-room door open behind her.
At the first glance the effect was one of colour—dark
red curtains; bright coloured cushions; Margaret a
silhouette, in her black dress with the light behind her.
She kept her hand on the door and did not move to let
him in.</p>

<p>‘Well?’ said Charles. ‘Now that you’re quite sure it’s
me, couldn’t we come in?’</p>

<p>Margaret dropped her hand, turned and walked
past the table to the hearth. A handful of sticks just
lighted crackled there. She bent and put a lump of coal
on them.</p>

<p>Charles came in behind her and shut the door. He
was in a fever of impatience to look at her, to see her
face. And then she rose suddenly from the fire and
swung round; the light shone on her. She was pale—clear,
and pale, and fine; the only colour was in her
eyes—brown sombre colour with a dark fire behind the
brown. She had changed; sorrow had gone over her and
changed her. But under the change there was still
Margaret, a Margaret who was so familiar that his
heart jumped.</p>

<p>She spoke quickly:</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid I can’t ask you to stop. I’ve only just got
in, and I have to get my supper.’</p>

<p>‘The soul of hospitality!’ said Charles. ‘As a matter
of fact I came to propose that we should dine somewhere
and dance or do a show—whichever you like best.’</p>

<p>She had changed—he supposed that he himself had
changed; but Margaret ought not to have changed so
much as this. The strong lines of cheek and jaw showed
too plainly. Her eyes were too large; they looked darker.
That was because she was so pale, and because of her
black dress. Something welled up through his anger.</p>

<p>‘Freddy told me you were here. Margaret, I want to
say I’m so sorry about—her. Archie told me. I hadn’t
heard.’</p>

<p>Margaret moved quickly.</p>

<p>‘Yes—I can’t talk about it. Where did you see
Freddy?’</p>

<p>‘He was dining with some people at The Luxe. I
haven’t gone down to Thornhill Square yet. The Luxe
is—more sociable. I thought we might dine there
tonight.’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Margaret.</p>

<p>‘Now look here! Just be a reasonable creature for
once in a way. The change will do you good. I propose
that we strew a little decent dust over the hatchet just
for tonight. We needn’t really bury it, you know—quite
without prejudice, as the lawyers say. After all,
one must dine.’</p>

<p>Margaret looked at him out of those big dark eyes.
He thought they mocked him.</p>

<p>‘My dear Charles, I don’t dine—I sup. When I’m
very affluent I have an egg or a sardine. When I’m
not—’</p>

<p>‘Revolting!’ said Charles. ‘Come and dine—real
dinner.’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Margaret. Her tone was a little fainter.
Last night’s bitter weeping had left her weary and cold.
Now her mood began to change; there came over her
an impatience of all this dreary round into which her
life had fallen. Charles standing there brought back the
old days; his voice, his teasing, smiling eyes, his air of
cheerful vigour, all brought with them a longing for the
old life, the old natural enjoyment in a hundred things
which had slipped away from her.</p>

<p>‘Come along,’ said Charles. He let his voice soften
and his eyes look into hers.</p>

<p>She stopped resisting the turn of her mood. Why
shouldn’t she go back for an hour like a ghost, eat,
drink and be merry, dance through an evening, and
leave tomorrow to take care of itself?</p>

<p>‘Well?’ said Charles. ‘You’ve just time to dress.’</p>

<p>He looked over her shoulder at the clock on the
mantelpiece, a pretty trifle of bright green china with
wreaths of gold and painted flowers. He and Margaret
had bought it together in an old shop in Chelsea; he
had given it to her on her nineteenth birthday, a
month before they became engaged. The hands pointed
to a quarter to seven.</p>

<p>He said, ‘Well? You’re coming?’ and saw the colour
come into her face.</p>

<p>She laughed unexpectedly and picked up the clock.
He watched with surprise and amusement. What was
she going to do?</p>

<p>What she did was to open the clock and turn the
hands. They went round with a little whirr; she was
turning them backwards—once—twice—three—four—five
times; and as they turned, she became the glowing,
young, live Margaret of that nineteenth birthday.</p>

<p>‘What are you doing?’ asked Charles smiling.</p>

<p>‘I’m putting back the clock five years,’ said Margaret.
There was a shade of defiance in her tone. Five
years took them back to the days before what Charles
had called the ‘episode’; it took them back to the
time they were just neighbours and friends, seeing
one another every day, full of common interest,
engagements, diversions, quarrels.</p>

<p>Charles lifted his eyebrows.</p>

<p>‘Five years?’</p>

<p>She nodded.</p>

<p>‘Yes, five. Is it a bargain?’</p>

<p>‘Go and dress,’ he said.</p>

<p>Charles made himself very agreeable over dinner.
Incidentally he began to learn something of Margaret’s
life during the past four years. To his surprise he found
that she had been working during the whole of the
time, though she had gone on living in George Street
until her mother’s death.</p>

<p>‘Freddy was very anxious I shouldn’t think you had
quarrelled with him.’ He laughed. ‘How would one set
about quarrelling with Freddy? Has anyone ever done
it?’</p>

<p>‘I shouldn’t think so.’</p>

<p>‘You didn’t?’</p>

<p>‘My dear Charles!’</p>

<p>‘No—but did you?’</p>

<p>‘Would it be your business if I had?’</p>

<p>Charles considered.</p>

<p>‘You’re not playing the game. This is five years ago
and I am thinking of asking you to marry me. Yes, I
think it’s my business, because you see, if a girl has
quarrelled with her stepfather and left home, one
might want to know why before one took the fatal
plunge.’</p>

<p>Margaret put down her left hand and clenched it on
the sharp edges of the chair on which she sat. Just for a
moment all the lights in the long room seemed to
swing, and the room itself was full of a grey mist. She
looked steadily into the mist until it lifted and showed
her Charles leaning towards her across the table with his
charming malicious smile.</p>

<p>‘Are <span class='it'>you</span> playing the game? You can’t have it both
ways, you know. If it’s now, it’s not your business; and
if it’s five years ago—‘her voice broke in a sudden
laugh—‘why, if it’s five years ago, I haven’t left home at
all.’</p>

<p>‘Your trick!’ said Charles. But he had seen her colour
go, and just for one horrid moment he had thought
that she might be going to faint.</p>

<p>After dinner they danced in the famous Gold Room.
Margaret was a beautiful dancer, and for a time they
did not talk at all. Perhaps they were both remembering
the last time they had danced together, a week
before the wedding day which had never come.</p>

<p>Charles broke the silence. Memories are too dangerous
sometimes.</p>

<p>‘All the old tunes are as dead as door-nails. I don’t
know the name of anything. Do you?’</p>

<p>‘The last one,’ said Margaret, ‘is called <span class='it'>I don’t mind
being all alone when I’m all alone with you</span>.’</p>

<p>‘And this one?’</p>

<p>They were close to the orchestra, and a young man
with a piercing tenor uplifted his voice and sang
through his nose: ‘Oh, baby! Don’t we get along?’</p>

<p>‘Ripping!’ said Charles. ‘I like the way these fellows
burst into song.’</p>

<p>‘I’m happy! You’re happy!’ sang the young man in
the band.</p>

<p>‘In fact,’ said Charles, ‘the libretto has been specially
written for us. I must thank the management. You
wouldn’t like to come with me, I suppose?’</p>

<p>Margaret laughed.</p>

<p>‘No, I wouldn’t. And you needn’t think you can get
a rise out of me by saying things like that, because you
can’t.’</p>

<p>‘Sure?’</p>

<p>‘Quite sure.’</p>

<p>‘Then let’s talk about swimming the channel, or
flying to Tierra del Fuego, or something nice and safe
like that.’</p>

<p>Margaret laughed again; and when she laughed, the
dark fire sparkled in her eyes.</p>

<p>‘My charwoman—I have her once a week when I
feel rich enough—doesn’t think flying at all nice—not
for a lady “as calls herself a lady”. She said to me this
morning that days and nights alone with a “pirate” was
what she didn’t call respectable. She’s a priceless
treasure, and if I could afford to have her every day, it
would cheer me up quite a lot.’</p>

<p>‘Do you need cheering? And if you do, must it be a
charwoman?’</p>

<p>Another dance had begun. They glided into it.
Margaret did not perhaps think that Charles’s last
remark called for an answer. The young man in the
band broke forth once more: ‘Can’t we be sweethearts
now?’</p>

<p>‘This song and dance business is <span class='it'>very</span> amusing,’
said Charles. ‘Not a dull moment anywhere. What’s
that step the fellow over there’s doing? It looks tricky.
Do you know it? You do? Then we’ll practise it
together.’</p>

<p>He saw her home, and it was on the dark doorstep
that he said,</p>

<p>‘The clock’s turned back again, and I want to ask
you a question?’</p>

<p>‘It’s too late—I must go in.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, it’s too late; but I want to ask you all the same.
You wouldn’t give me the chance four years ago, you
know. Why did you do it, Margaret?’</p>

<p>He heard her take her breath; felt, rather than saw,
that she stepped back.</p>

<p>‘I can’t tell you.’</p>

<p>‘Why can’t you?’</p>

<p>‘I can’t. It’s all over and done with, and dead and
buried.’ Her rather deep voice sank deeper. ‘It’s all
<span class='it'>over</span>.’</p>

<p>‘I wonder,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>Margaret pushed her latch-key into the lock with a
fierce thrust.</p>

<p>‘It’s <span class='it'>over</span>,’ she said.</p>

<p>The door shut between them heavily.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XIII</h1></div>

<p>Margot Standing wrote again to her friend Stephanie at
the <span class='it'>pension</span>.</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p>Oh, Stephanie, I do wish you were here! I haven’t
got anyone to talk to, and it’s so frightfully dull. You
can’t call Mr Hale a person to talk to, because he
does all the talking himself, and everything he says is
simply deadly. He says I shan’t have any money at
all unless there’s a will, or those certificates turn up.
And he says he’s sure there isn’t a will because of
what poor Papa said to his father. And yesterday he
said he was sure there weren’t any certificates,
because there was a letter from Papa to say so. And
he said not to worry, because perhaps Egbert and I
could come to some arrangement, and that that
would be much the best thing. But I’ve made up my
mind to go out and earn my living. I think it’s rather
romantic to earn one’s living and to be a penniless
orphan instead of a great heiress. I think it’s frightfully
romantic to be a penniless orphan, and in
books they always have a frightfully exciting time.
But great heiresses get married for their money, so
I think it’s much better not to be one. Don’t tell
anyone, but I answered an advertisement, and I got
an answer, and I’m going to someone who wants a
nice-looking girl for a secretary. I was afraid I might
be too young, but he wrote and said he liked them
young and wanted to know what colour my hair was
and a lot of things like that. So I sent him the little
snap-shot Mademoiselle took last term, and he said
he was sure I should suit him, and I’m going there
tomorrow. I haven’t told anyone. And—this is the
most secret part of all, and what you’re most particularly
not to tell anyone. And <span class='it'>please</span> tear this up,
because you know you do leave letters about, and
it’s most frightfully secret. I’m not calling myself
Margot Standing, because I don’t want anyone to
know where I am—Egbert, I mean, or Mr Hale, or
anyone. So I’m calling myself Esther Brandon.
Don’t you think it’s a frightfully good name and very
romantic? I didn’t make it up—I <span class='it'>found</span> it. I was
really looking to see if I could find those certificates
or anything about my mother. There is a big box full
of old things in one of the attics. I wanted to use the
things for dressing-up on holidays, and when I asked
Papa, he said ‘No’ in a most <span class='it'>frightful</span> voice, and
Mrs Beauchamp said I oughtn’t to have asked, and
she expected the things belonged to my mother. So I
thought I’d look and see if I could find anything. But
there were only dresses—awfully funny and long,
with frills and huge sleeves and lots and lots of little
bones. I <span class='it'>can’t</span> think how they breathed. And right at
the bottom there was an old green desk. It had
M.E.B. on the lid in gold letters, and I thought it was
going to be frightfully exciting. But it wasn’t, because
it was empty. The only thing that was in it was a
twisted screw of paper that had got wedged in under
a little drawer at the side. I got it out, and it had
Esther Brandon written on it like you sign your
name. It looked like a little bit torn off the end of a
letter. I thought it was a frightfully romantic name,
and I expect it must have been my mother’s name
because of E.B. on the lid of the desk. When I
wanted a name to go and earn my living with, I
thought I’d be Esther Brandon. But you’re not to
tell anyone at all. And mind you tear this letter up at
once, and <span class='it'>tear it up small</span>—not like the people in
books who leave bits about, and the villain puts
them together and finds out all the things they don’t
want him to know.</p>

</div>

<p>When Miss Standing had finished her letter, she
threw a wistful glance at the empty chocolate box and
wandered into the drawing-room. She was not prepared
to find her cousin Egbert there, and if she had
been a shade less bored, she might have retreated
unobserved. As it was, even Egbert was someone to talk
to, and she was perhaps a little curious as to what he
was doing standing on one of the drawing-room chairs
and gazing fixedly at the picture furthest from the door.</p>

<p>He turned round when he heard her, but remained
standing on the chair.</p>

<p>‘It’s no more a Turner than I am!’</p>

<p>‘What isn’t?’</p>

<p>‘That picture isn’t.’ He laughed rather rudely. ‘My
uncle’s geese were all swans. He didn’t know enough to
pay the prices he did. Of course he wouldn’t ask me,
but I could have told him from the very beginning that
that wasn’t a Turner.’</p>

<p>‘It’s awfully ugly anyway,’ said Margot.</p>

<p>Egbert gave a snort and jumped down from the
chair.</p>

<p>‘Ugly? Who cares whether it’s ugly or not? If it was
a Turner, it would be worth thousands of pounds. But
it isn’t a Turner, and it isn’t worth a thousand pence.’</p>

<p>‘Good gracious, Egbert, what does it matter? You’ll
have simply piles of money anyhow.’</p>

<p>‘It’s not a question of money. Besides—’</p>

<p>‘You <span class='it'>will</span> have pots—won’t you? I shouldn’t think
you’d know what to do with it.’</p>

<p>Egbert looked annoyed.</p>

<p>‘Nobody ever has too much money,’ he said.
‘Besides there won’t be so much as you seem to think,
by the time the death duties are paid and one thing and
another.’</p>

<p>‘Good gracious!’ said Miss Standing again. ‘You’re
frightfully sure you’re going to get it. Suppose I’ve just
found a will, or one of those certificates Mr Hale keeps
bothering about—what would you do then?’</p>

<p>Something just flickered across Egbert’s face—fear,
and something uglier than fear. Margot, without
understanding why, felt her breath come quicker; she
wanted to run out of the room and bang the door.
Instead she repeated her question:</p>

<p>‘What would you do?’</p>

<p>‘Have you found anything?’ said Egbert in a
different voice; and again Margot would have liked to
run away.</p>

<p>‘I might have found something. There was an old
box that belonged to my mother.’</p>

<p>He came a step nearer.</p>

<p>‘Was there? What was in it? What did you find?’
Margot went back a step.</p>

<p>‘I found some old dresses. They must have been <span class='it'>very</span>
uncomfortable to wear.’</p>

<p>‘What else did you find?’</p>

<p>‘I found a desk. Wouldn’t you like to know what
was in it?’</p>

<p>‘Papers?’ said Egbert.</p>

<p>Margot laughed. She couldn’t think why she felt
frightened.</p>

<p>‘You’re talking nonsense!’ said Egbert pettishly. ‘I
don’t believe there were any papers.’</p>

<p>‘Perhaps there weren’t.’</p>

<p>‘You’d have shown them to Mr Hale fast enough.’</p>

<p>‘Perhaps I should, and perhaps I shouldn’t.’</p>

<p>‘Nonsense! Look here, I want to talk to you.’</p>

<p>‘You are talking to me.’</p>

<p>‘I want to talk to you about something special.
You’re only chaffing about that desk, you know. There’s
no chance of a will turning up now, and your father’s
own letter makes it quite clear that it’s no use your
buoying yourself up thinking you’ve got any claim on
his money. But, as I said to Mr Hale, there’s no reason
for you to worry, because I’m quite willing to go
shares.’</p>

<p>Margot opened her eyes very wide indeed.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Shares!</span>’</p>

<p>‘Well, that’s just a way of putting it. It wouldn’t
really be shares of course, but it would come to just the
same thing as far as you were concerned. I mean if a
girl’s got plenty of pretty frocks and some pocket-money,
and a good home, and a car—I don’t say it
wouldn’t run to a car—well, she doesn’t want anything
more—does she?’</p>

<p>‘She might.’</p>

<p>‘She wouldn’t. Why should she?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know. I don’t know what you mean.’</p>

<p>‘I mean if we were married,’ said Egbert.</p>

<p>Margot gave a little shriek:</p>

<p>‘If <span class='it'>who</span> was married?’</p>

<p>‘We. I said if we were married.’</p>

<p>Margot stared at him.</p>

<p>‘Good gracious, Egbert! What a <span class='it'>frightful</span> idea!’</p>

<p>‘It wouldn’t be frightful at all—it would be a very
good provision for you.’</p>

<p>Margot giggled.</p>

<p>‘It would be frightful!’ She giggled again. ‘Are you
proposing to me?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I am.’ There was very little of the ardent lover
about his tone.</p>

<p>‘I’ve never been proposed to before. I didn’t know it
would be like this.’</p>

<p>‘You ought to take it seriously. It would be a very
good thing for you.’</p>

<p>Margot retreated towards the door. Something was
making her feel frightened all the time.</p>

<p>‘No, it wouldn’t. I should hate it—I should hate it
most frightfully. I’d rather marry anyone—I’d rather
marry Mr Hale or old Monsieur Declos who taught us
drawing and took snuff—I would really!’</p>

<p>‘I suppose you’re joking. You won’t have a penny if
you don’t marry me—not a single penny.’</p>

<p>Something came with a rush into Margot’s eyes—hot,
wet, smarting.</p>

<p>‘I don’t want a penny, and I’d rather marry an
<span class='it'>organ-grinder</span>!’ she said.</p>

<p>This time she did run out of the room and bang the
door.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XIV</h1></div>

<p>Margot ran out of the drawing-room and down the
stairs. Half-way she stopped running and began to
walk quite slowly. Why on earth should she run away
from Egbert? It wasn’t his house yet, though he had
begun to behave as if it were.</p>

<p>She stopped, looked down, and saw her letter to
Stephanie sticking out of the pocket of her white
jumper. She thought she would go out and post it; but
it wanted a stamp. There were always stamps in the
study—</p>

<p>She stamped her letter and went to the post with it. It
wasn’t very nice out; the fog was coming up again, and
it was wet under foot although there had been no rain.</p>

<p>Margot let herself into the house with the feeling
that it was pleasanter after all to be indoors. If she had
only had some chocolates. But they were all gone, and
though Mr Hale had given her ten shillings ‘just to go
on with’, she would want that for the great adventure
of going out as a secretary. She would just have to
amuse herself with the rather exciting story which she
had left off to go and write to Stephanie. The bother
was, she had left the book in the corner of the drawing-room
sofa, and she had had enough of Egbert for one
afternoon.</p>

<p>She stopped at the drawing-room door and listened.
Perhaps he had gone away; there really wasn’t anything
for him to stay for. She felt sure that he had gone
away; but all the same she turned the handle very softly
and let the door swing open an inch or two before she
looked in.</p>

<p>Egbert was standing on a chair again, but this time it
was in front of another picture. He had his back to
Margot and to the sofa on which she had left her book.
She opened the door a little wider. She could see the
book lying there face downwards, half on the back of
the sofa and half on a sprawling purple cushion; and
she could see Egbert looking hard at the picture of a
very fat, bulging woman with about a hundred yards of
drapery slipping off her in every direction.</p>

<p>Margot made up her mind to risk it. The sofa was in
an angle between the wall and the window; if she was
quick and didn’t make a noise, she could get her book
without Egbert knowing anything about it. She slipped
into the room, reached the sofa, and had her hand on
the book, when Egbert suddenly jumped down.</p>

<p>For once in her life Margot moved quickly. Before
Egbert had time to turn round she had ducked behind
the sofa, and when he went to the bell and stood there
with his finger on it, she crawled along inch by inch
until she was sitting on the floor between the sofa and
the wall. No one would find her now unless he leaned
right over the back and looked down. The whole thing
was just the outcome of a schoolgirl instinct to hide.</p>

<p>Margot sat in her corner giggling inwardly and
wondering if Egbert would stay there long—it would be
a bore if she had to miss her tea. She wondered why he
had rung the bell. It was that stupid William’s business
to answer it. Margot thought he was quite the stupidest
footman they had ever had.</p>

<p>Someone came through the door and shut it. Margot
couldn’t see anything, but she heard Egbert say, ‘Come
here—I want to talk to you’; and then, ‘Where is she?’</p>

<p>‘She went out to post a letter.’</p>

<p>It ought to have been William who answered the
bell. But this was not William’s voice. It didn’t sound
like a footman’s voice at all; it was rather bored and
curt.</p>

<p>Egbert said, ‘Well, I’ve asked her, and she won’t
have me. I told you she wouldn’t—I told you it wasn’t
any good.’</p>

<p>It couldn’t be William who had answered the bell.
Egbert wouldn’t tell William that he had proposed to
her and that she had said ‘No’. Margot giggled again
as she thought of what she had really said.</p>

<p>The man who couldn’t be William made an impatient
sound.</p>

<p>‘Of course you made a mess of it—you’d be bound to
do that.’</p>

<p>Who on earth could it be? None of the servants
would speak to Egbert like that. But he had rung the
bell, and it was William’s business to answer the bell.</p>

<p>‘I didn’t make a mess of it. I pointed out what a
good thing it would be for her.’</p>

<p>‘You made a mess of it. A girl of eighteen wants to
be made love to—I suppose you never thought of that.’</p>

<p>‘She never gave me a chance. I don’t like her, and
she doesn’t like me, and there’s an end of it.’</p>

<p>‘Is there? You know best what your orders are, and
you know whether he’ll be pleased at your failure to
carry them out.’</p>

<p>‘He can’t expect me to marry the girl if she won’t
have me.’ Egbert’s tone was pettish in the extreme.</p>

<p>‘He expects you to marry her or <span class='it'>remove</span> her. He’s not
taking any risks—there’s too much at stake.’</p>

<p>Margot felt as if she were listening to a play. It was a
frightening play; it made her feel creepy all down the
back of her neck. Who was <span class='it'>he</span>? Why did he want
Egbert to marry her? Was it Mr Hale? What did they
mean by saying that Egbert would have to marry her or
<span class='it'>remove</span> her? It had a horrid sort of sound.</p>

<p>Egbert said, ‘He can’t make me marry her.’</p>

<p>And then the man who couldn’t be William said,
‘Oh well, that was just a concession to your family
feelings. He would really prefer her out of the way for
good and all.’</p>

<p>Margot’s hands began to feel very cold. It was getting
more frightening every minute.</p>

<p>‘He can’t make me do that either,’ said Egbert
Standing.</p>

<p>The other man laughed. The laugh didn’t make
Margot feel any better.</p>

<p>‘I think you’ll do what you’re told when you get
your orders. I’m to report tonight, and I think we shall
both do exactly what we’re told to do. And I think—I
rather think—Miss Margot is for it.’</p>

<p>‘Ssh!’ said Egbert quickly.</p>

<p>The other man laughed again.</p>

<p>‘What a rabbit you are! It’s a pity, because she’s
quite a pretty girl. It seems a pity to waste her, but I
agree with him that she’s better out of the way. I’ll
make up the fire now I’m here. Local colour! And I
won’t stop in case Daniels takes it into his pompous
head to wonder what I’m doing.’</p>

<p>Margot heard a log fall on the fire, and then the
scrunching rattle of coal. After a minute the door was
opened and shut again. The man who couldn’t possibly
have been William had gone away.</p>

<p>She had to wait another ten minutes before Egbert
Standing went away too.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XV</h1></div>

<p>It was next day that Charles Moray walked into Miss
Silver’s office by appointment. The exercise-book with
his name lay open before her. The pages had been
written on in a small neat hand.</p>

<p>Miss Silver sat upright and knitted. She appeared to
have finished the grey stocking he had seen last time
and to have embarked on a second one, for only about
three inches of dark grey ribbing depended from the
steel needles. She nodded to Charles in an absent way
and let him take a seat and say ‘Good-morning’ before
she opened her lips. Then she said,</p>

<p>‘It is a great pity you did not come to me before.’</p>

<p>‘Why, Miss Silver?’</p>

<p>Miss Silver heaved a gentle, depressed little sigh.</p>

<p>‘It is a pity. You would like to hear my report? I will
begin with Jaffray.’</p>

<p>‘Jaffray?’</p>

<p>‘The man you wished me to report upon, lodging
with Mrs Brown at 5 Gladys Villas, Chiswick.’</p>

<p>‘Yes. What have you been able to find out?’</p>

<p>‘You shall hear.’ She glanced at the exercise-book,
but continued to knit. ‘He was until recently in the
employment of Mr Standing the millionaire, on whose
family affairs you also wished for a report.’</p>

<p>‘In his employment?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, as valet and general factotum when he was on
board his yacht.’</p>

<p>‘Do you mean that Jaffray remained on the yacht?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, that is what I mean. Mr Standing liked to
have someone there who knew his ways. He used to
wire: “Coming on board such and such a time”, and
Jaffray would have everything ready for him. He could
afford to pay for his fancies. I found Mrs Brown a very
pleasant, talkative person. She seemed to have a very
high opinion of Jaffray, who has lodged with her on and
off for the last nine years.’</p>

<p>‘Was he with Mr Standing on his last cruise?’</p>

<p>‘Oh yes—he has only just got back.’ Miss Silver
took out a needle, looked at it for a moment, and then
began another row. ‘Mrs Brown seemed to think it a
little strange that Jaffray was not more upset at the loss
of so good an employer. She said she wondered he
didn’t trouble at not having any work. And I think she
was worrying about whether he would be able to go on
paying his rent regularly. I have always found worried
people very willing to talk. The more worried they are,
the more they will tell you.’</p>

<p>Charles leaned forward.</p>

<p>‘Is Jaffray really deaf? Did Mrs Brown tell you that?’</p>

<p>Miss Silver pressed her lips together for a moment.</p>

<p>‘Mrs Brown talked a good deal about what she called
Mr Jaffray’s affliction. She said he lost his hearing in
the war at the time Hill 60 was blown up. She very
much deplored the disadvantage to Mr Jaffray in his
search for a new situation, and she repeated more than
once that she could not understand why he did not take
it more to heart.’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Is</span> he deaf?’ said Charles.</p>

<p>‘Mrs Brown spoke as if he were.’</p>

<p>‘But <span class='it'>is</span> he?’</p>

<p>The needles flashed and clicked. Miss Silver said, ‘I
don’t think so, Mr Moray.’</p>

<p>Charles gave a violent start.</p>

<p>‘You don’t think he’s deaf at all!’</p>

<p>‘No, I don’t think he’s deaf. But I’m not sure. I will
report to you again. I think I can find out. Now as to
the other matter on which you wished me to report. I
am really extremely sorry that you did not come to me
before.’</p>

<p>‘What has happened?’ Charles spoke apprehensively.</p>

<p>‘Miss Standing has disappeared,’ said Miss Silver in
mournful tones.</p>

<p>A hideous sense of responsibility weighed Charles to
the ground. He had known that the girl was threatened,
and because of Margaret he had held his tongue. He
turned a hard face on Miss Silver.</p>

<p>‘How can she have disappeared?’</p>

<p>‘I will tell you what I know. She left her house in
Grange Square yesterday afternoon. She had a trunk
with her, and she took a taxi to Waterloo Station.
There she took another taxi and drove to No. 125
Gregson Street. She had engaged herself to go there as
secretary to a man who calls himself Percy Smith. It
was extremely ill-advised of her to take this step. Mr
Smith is not a man of good character. He has been
mixed up in one or two very nasty scandals.’</p>

<p>‘Go on,’ said Charles, ‘what has happened?’</p>

<p>Miss Silver dropped her knitting in her lap.</p>

<p>‘I can only tell you what happened up to a certain
point. Miss Standing had dropped her own name—she
called herself Esther Brandon.’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>What!</span>’ said Charles. ‘No—go on!’</p>

<p>‘She called herself Esther Brandon. And she arrived
at 125 Gregson Street at seven o’clock yesterday evening.
She was only in the house for about half an hour.
She left in a great hurry and without any luggage, and
no one has any idea of where she went. So far I have
not been able to trace her; but I certainly hope to do
so.’</p>

<p>Charles stared at the floor. Esther Brandon—what
on earth had Margot Standing to do with Esther Brandon?
Chance—coincidence—no, not by a long chalk.
If Mr Standing’s daughter had taken Esther Brandon’s
name, it was because the name meant something to
her. Now what did it mean?</p>

<p>‘If you would tell me everything, it would be easier,
Mr Moray,’ said Miss Silver.</p>

<p>He stopped looking at the floor and looked at her.</p>

<p>‘Don’t I tell you everything?’</p>

<p>She shook her head.</p>

<p>‘You are like the people who let a house and keep
one room locked up. You needn’t be afraid that I shall
open the door when you are not there. But it would be
easier for me to serve you if you would give me the key.’</p>

<p>‘It’s not my key, Miss Silver,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>Miss Silver took up her knitting again.</p>

<p>‘I see,’ she said.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XVI</h1></div>

<p>Margot Standing ran out into the street. Her heart was
thumping so hard that it shook her; her legs shook
under her as she ran. Her world had been so violently
shaken that it seemed to be falling about her. She was
really only conscious of two things—that she was
frightened, oh, dreadfully frightened; and that it was
dreadfully difficult to get her breath. She didn’t feel as
if she could go on running; but she <span class='it'>must</span> go on running,
because if she didn’t, the man might come out of the
house and catch her. The thought terrified her so much
that she went on running even after it seemed as if she
could not breathe at all.</p>

<p>It was quite dark and foggy, and she did not know in
the least where she was going; she only ran, and went
on running until her outstretched hands came up hard
against a wall. The shock upset her balance. Her left
shoulder hit the wall. She swung half round and then
fell in a heap. She had not breath enough to cry out.
She lay at the foot of the wall with a sense of having
come to the end of anything she could do. There was
nothing but fog, and darkness, and cold wet stones.</p>

<p>After a few minutes her breath began to come back.
Presently she moved and sat up. She wasn’t hurt, but
her bare hands were scraped. She had run out of the
house in Gregson Street without any gloves on; her
gloves were on the table where the cocktails were.
When she thought about the gloves, she could smell the
strong sickly smell, and she could see Mr Percy Smith
standing there and holding out a little glass full of
yellow stuff with a cherry and a grape bobbing about in
it.</p>

<p>Sitting there on rough, wet cobblestones, Margot
began to cry. She cried with all her might for ten
minutes, and then began to feel better. She had got
away. If he hadn’t gone out of the room—Margot
dabbed her eyes with her very wet handkerchief and
saw herself sitting there quite stupid and dumb with
the cocktail in her hand, and Mr Percy Smith going
out of the room and saying he wouldn’t be a minute.</p>

<p>She scrambled up on to her knees because she didn’t
want to see that picture any more. It made her feel
exactly like she had felt when Mrs Beauchamp took her
to the top of the Eiffel Tower and told her to look over.
Margot had looked for a moment; and then she
wouldn’t have looked again for anything in the world.
To stand on the edge of a frightful drop and to think
how easily one might fall over it—</p>

<p>Margot got right up on to her feet and began to walk
blindly forward over the cobblestones. The lights of a
car flashed in front of her. Sounds of traffic came
through the fog. Her foot struck against the kerb at the
edge of a pavement. She turned to the right and walked
along slowly without the least idea of where she was
going.</p>

<p>She had been walking for half an hour before her
mind really began to work again. Someone knocked
against her, and a shrill cockney voice said, ‘Look out!
Where are you going?’</p>

<p>Margot moved on, startled. The question repeated
itself: ‘Where are you going? Where—are—you—going?’
It was this question that woke her up: ‘Where
are you going?’—‘I haven’t anywhere to go.’ ‘Where
are you going?’—‘I don’t know.’ ‘Where are you
going?’—‘Oh, I haven’t got anywhere to go to.’</p>

<p>She had cried so violently that no more tears came
into her eyes, but she felt as if she were crying deep
inside her. It was a frightful thing not to have anywhere
to go to. She couldn’t possibly go back to Grange
Square, where Egbert and somebody else—somebody
who had answered the bell that William ought to have
answered—were waiting to get their orders about
<span class='it'>removing</span> her. Even after being so dreadfully frightened
by Mr Percy Smith she could still shake and turn cold
when she remembered that vague, suggestive word.</p>

<p>What was she going to do? What did you do when
you were a girl and you hadn’t got anywhere to go to,
and you didn’t know anyone who would help you, and
you only had a shilling in the world. If Papa had only
let her have friends like other girls. But he had never let
her know anyone except at school. And Mrs Beauchamp
was on her way to Australia. It had been her business
to see that Margot didn’t pick up acquaintances in
the holidays. Margot would have given a great many
things that she did not possess to have had just one
acquaintance now.</p>

<p>Mr Hale—but if it were Mr Hale who was giving
those orders—perhaps it was—perhaps it was Mr Hale
who was going to tell Egbert and William—no, it
<span class='it'>couldn’t</span> be William—to <span class='it'>remove</span> her.</p>

<p>She couldn’t go home. Oh, it wasn’t home any more;
it was only a house where people were planning horrible
things. It was Egbert’s house; it wasn’t hers. She hadn’t
got anywhere to go to—she hadn’t got a home—she
hadn’t got anything.</p>

<p>These things kept coming into her mind like a lot of
aimless people struggling into a room and drifting out
again; they didn’t do anything, they just came in, and
drifted about, and went away.</p>

<p>Margot went on walking, and the aimless thoughts
kept on coming and going. The thick moisture that
filled the air with fog began to condense and come
down in rain. Soon she was very wet. The rain became
heavier; it soaked through her blue serge coat and
began to drop from the brim of her hat. The coat had a
collar of grey fur. The rain collected on it and trickled
down the back of her neck.</p>

<p>Only that afternoon Margot had written to
Stephanie that there was something frightfully romantic
about being a penniless orphan. It didn’t feel a bit
romantic now; it felt cold, and frightening, and
desperately miserable.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XVII</h1></div>

<p>Charles Moray was still living at The Luxe, but he had
fallen into the way of paying unheralded visits at odd
times to the house in Thornhill Square. He did not
always let the Latterys know that he had been and gone.
He did not always enter the house; sometimes he
merely walked along the square, up Thorney Lane,
and into the garden by way of the alley that ran behind
it. In all his visits he neither saw nor heard anything
unusual.</p>

<p>On this particular evening he walked round the
garden, heard ten o’clock strike from the church of St
Justin, and went out through the door in the wall, locking
it after him. As he stood with his back to the alley-way
and withdrew the key, someone passed behind him
in the darkness.</p>

<p>Charles turned and began to walk towards Thorney
Lane. The lamp at the end of the alley showed him that
it was a woman who had passed behind him whilst he
was locking the door. She turned to the left and walked
quickly down Thorney Lane past the opening into
Thornhill Square to the big thoroughfare that lay
beyond. Charles followed her.</p>

<p>The woman was Margaret Langton. If she had been
up to her old home, the alley-way and Thorney Lane
would be a short cut for her. He thought he would wait
a little before catching her up.</p>

<p>The night was cold, but there was no fog. Heavy rain
had cleared the air, and the falling temperature seemed
to promise frost before morning.</p>

<p>As Margaret turned into the lighted thoroughfare,
he saw that she was carrying a parcel. He came up with
her with an easy, ‘Hullo, Margaret! Where are you off
to?’</p>

<p>‘I’ve been up to see Freddy. I’m going home.’</p>

<p>‘So you really haven’t quarrelled with him?’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Margaret in a tired voice, ‘I haven’t
quarrelled with Freddy. Why should I?’</p>

<p>Charles took her parcel and tucked it under his arm.
It felt like a box, quite light, but awkward to hold.</p>

<p>‘Loot?’ he inquired.</p>

<p>‘Only an old desk of my mother’s. It’s empty. Freddy
said I could have it. He’s going abroad, you know.’</p>

<p>‘Freddy is!’</p>

<p>‘Yes—he can’t bear England without her. He wants to
travel.’</p>

<p>‘I’m awfully sorry for him,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>He was awfully sorry for Margaret too, but he knew
better than to say so. She kept her passionate feeling in
a shrine which no one else must enter. He held his
peace.</p>

<p>They walked on in silence until Margaret stopped and
held out her hand.</p>

<p>‘I go up here. Give me my parcel, please.’</p>

<p>‘I thought I was seeing you home.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know why you thought so.’</p>

<p>‘I still think so,’ said Charles cheerfully.</p>

<p>Margaret shook her head.</p>

<p>‘No. Please give me my box.’</p>

<p>Perhaps she expected him to contest the point.
Instead, he said quite meekly,</p>

<p>‘Very well, if you like carrying things that run into
you, carry them.’</p>

<p>‘Thanks,’ said Margaret.</p>

<p>Her way lay along one of the darker streets. She felt
an odd, rough disappointment as she walked along it
alone. She had certainly expected that Charles would
thrust his company upon her. She had told him to go;
but she had not expected him to go. He was not at all a
biddable person. If he let her go home alone, it was
because he did not want to come with her. Margaret
held her head a little higher. The old desk was a most
uncomfortable thing to carry; sometimes the edge of it
ran into her side, and sometimes into her arm.</p>

<p>In the darkest patch of the road she bumped into
someone. Her ‘Oh, I’m so sorry!’ received no answer
except a sort of half sob.</p>

<p>‘Did I hurt you?’</p>

<p>The distressing little sound was repeated. Margaret
began to wonder what was the matter. She could just
see someone standing against the brick wall that bordered
the tiny front gardens of the houses on this side of
the road. The dark figure seemed to be leaning against
the wall in a helpless half-crouching attitude.</p>

<p>‘What is it? Are you ill?’</p>

<p>The figure moved. A girl’s voice said shakily, ‘I—don’t—know.’</p>

<p>‘What’s the matter?’</p>

<p>It was abominably stupid to ask the question—the
girl would certainly beg from her.</p>

<p>‘I haven’t anywhere to go.’</p>

<p>Margaret moved, and at once two despairing hands
caught at her.</p>

<p>‘Don’t go away! Don’t leave me!’</p>

<p>Margaret told herself she had been a fool, but she
was in for it now. She took the girl by the arm, and felt
that her sleeve was soaked.</p>

<p>‘Good gracious! You’re wet through!’</p>

<p>‘It rained.’ The voice was one of utter misery.</p>

<p>‘Come along as far as the lamp-post—we can’t talk in
the dark.’</p>

<p>The lamplight showed Margaret a girl with drenched
fair hair hanging in wispy curls. The girl was very pretty
indeed; even with a tear-stained face and limp hair
she was very pretty. Her dark blue coat was beautifully
cut, and drenched though it was, Margaret could both
feel and see that the stuff had been expensive. It had a
grey fox collar, draggled and discouraged-looking, but
a fine skin for all that.</p>

<p>The girl looked at her out of blue, tear-washed eyes
set round with astonishingly black lashes.</p>

<p>‘Have you lost your way?’ said Margaret gravely.</p>

<p>‘Yes—I have—but—’</p>

<p>‘Where do you live?’</p>

<p>The girl gulped down a sob.</p>

<p>‘I can’t go back—I <span class='it'>can’t</span>.’</p>

<p>She couldn’t be more than seventeen or eighteen.
Margaret’s eyes travelled down to her feet. Expensive
shoes—real Milanese stockings. ‘The little idiot has
had a row with her people and run away.’ She spoke
firmly:</p>

<p>‘Where do you live? You must go home at once.’</p>

<p>‘I can’t. I haven’t got a home.’</p>

<p>‘Where have you come from?’</p>

<p>‘I can’t go back. They’ll do something dreadful to
me if I go back.’</p>

<p>‘Do you mean they’ll be angry with you?’</p>

<p>The girl shook her head.</p>

<p>‘There isn’t anyone to be angry. I haven’t got anyone—<span class='it'>really</span>
I haven’t. They’ll do something dreadful
to me. I heard them making a plan—I did really. I hid
behind the sofa and I heard them. They said it would
be safer to <span class='it'>remove me</span>.’ She shuddered violently. ‘Oh,
what do you think they meant?’</p>

<p>Margaret was puzzled. This might be delusion; but
the girl didn’t look unhinged. She looked frightened,
and she was certainly soaked to the skin.</p>

<p>‘Haven’t you any friends you could go to for
tonight?’</p>

<p>‘Papa wouldn’t let me have any friends, except at
school.’</p>

<p>‘Where was your school?’</p>

<p>‘In Switzerland.’</p>

<p>‘What on earth am I to do with you?’ said Margaret.
‘What’s your name?’</p>

<p>‘Esther Brandon,’ said the girl.</p>

<p>The desk that Margaret was carrying fell on the
pavement with a crash. The name was like a blow. She
looked at the girl’s brimming eyes and quivering
mouth, and saw them as if they were a long way off, a
very long way off. She had to put her hand on the
standard of the lamp and lean hard on it for a moment
before she could find voice enough to speak.</p>

<p>‘What did you say?’</p>

<p>‘Esther Brandon,’ said the girl.</p>

<p>Margaret felt quite numb and stupid. She bent down
and picked up the desk. It had been Esther Brandon’s
desk when she was a girl, no older than this girl. And
Esther Brandon had become Esther Langton, and
afterwards Esther Pelham. Margaret straightened herself,
holding the desk as if it weighed heavily. Then she
spoke suddenly and sharply:</p>

<p>‘Where did you get that name?’</p>

<p>The girl didn’t answer. She had looked frightened
when Margaret caught at the lamp-post. Now all of a
sudden a vague look came over her face; her eyes
clouded. She put out her hands and said ‘Oh!’ Then
she took a wavering step forward and went down all in a
heap on the pavement.</p>

<p>Mr Charles Moray loomed up out of the darkness.</p>

<p>‘Charles—thank goodness!’</p>

<p>‘What’s up?’ said Charles. ‘Who is she?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know. Be an angel and get me a taxi.’</p>

<p>‘What are you going to do with her?’</p>

<p>‘Take her back with me.’</p>

<p>Charles whistled.</p>

<p>‘My dear girl, you can’t go about London collecting
strange young females.’</p>

<p>Margaret was on her knees. The girl moved a little
and drew a choking breath.</p>

<p>Charles bent nearer.</p>

<p>‘Take her to a hospital, Margaret.’</p>

<p>‘I can’t.’</p>

<p>She turned her face up to him, and it was as white as
paper.</p>

<p>‘My dear girl—’</p>

<p>‘Charles—I can’t.’ Her voice fell to a whisper. ‘She
says her name—Charles, she says her name is Esther
Brandon.’</p>

<p>Charles whistled again.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XVIII</h1></div>

<p>Margot sat curled up in one easy chair. She had a
novel in her lap. The room was pleasantly warm,
because before Margaret went out she had lighted the
fire. There were no chocolates, and no one to talk to
until Margaret got back at half-past one. If it hadn’t
been Saturday, Margaret would not have been back till
nearly seven. Margot thought it was a very good thing
that it was Saturday.</p>

<p>She was wearing a jumper and skirt of Margaret’s,
and a pair of Margaret’s shoes and stockings. She was
also wearing Margaret’s underclothes. Her own wet
things were all in a heap inside the bedroom. It simply
did not occur to her to pick them up and hang them in
front of the fire to dry. After a night of profound
slumber in Margaret’s bed she looked very little the
worse for her fright and her wetting.</p>

<p>She wished she had some chocolates, and she wished
Margaret would come back. The book was rather a
dull one. Besides she didn’t want to read; she wanted to
talk. It was frightful not to have anyone to talk to after
the sort of things that had happened yesterday.</p>

<p>Margaret came home at half-past one. She proceeded
to get lunch. She had brought the lunch with her—a
tin of bully beef, a loaf of bread, and a cream cheese.</p>

<p>‘I’m hungry,’ said Margot.</p>

<p>Margaret considered the beef and the cheese. They
were meant to last over the week-end. Well, with any
luck the girl would be off her hands today—she must
be. She looked at Margot placidly eating beef and
decided to wait until she had finished.</p>

<p>Margot announced a passion for cream cheese. She
ate a good deal of it, and did not notice that Margaret
ate bread and scrap; she was too busy talking about
Stephanie and the skating parties they had had last
winter—‘I didn’t come home for the Christmas
holidays’; and how Mrs Beauchamp had taken her to
Paris for Easter—‘I got my coat there. Do you like it?
Of course you haven’t seen it properly yet, because it’s all
wet; but it’s rather nice, really, and Mrs Beauchamp
said it suited me.’</p>

<p>‘Who is Mrs Beauchamp?’ said Margaret. She
looked at the loaf, and decided that she had better not
have a second piece of bread.</p>

<p>‘Papa got her to look after me in the holidays. Can I
have some more cheese?’</p>

<p>‘And where is Mrs Beauchamp?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I expect she’s got to Australia by now. She
was going out to see her son. Fancy! She’d never seen
her grandchild—and it had the dinkiest curly hair!
Don’t you call that frightfully hard?’</p>

<p>When Margaret had put away what was left of the
loaf, the beef and the cheese, she planted herself
squarely in front of Margot who had returned to the
easy chair.</p>

<p>‘Look here, we’ve got to talk. Is your name really
Esther Brandon?’</p>

<p>Margot gazed at her ingenuously.</p>

<p>‘No, it isn’t.’</p>

<p>‘Then why did you say it was?’</p>

<p>‘I thought it was a romantic name, and I thought if I
was a penniless orphan and going out to earn my own
living, I might just as well have a <span class='it'>romantic</span> name.’</p>

<p>‘Where did you get it from?’ Margaret’s deep voice
was almost harsh. She sat forward in her chair and kept
her eyes on Margot’s face.</p>

<p>Margot giggled.</p>

<p>‘I found it on a bit of paper—a bit of a letter, you
know. It was in an old desk. I expect it was my
mother’s.’</p>

<p>Margaret drew a breath of relief. It was just a
chance—a bit of some letter her mother had written
long ago, perhaps to this girl’s mother, perhaps to some
other relative. It didn’t really matter. She spoke again
in an easier tone.</p>

<p>‘You were going out to earn your living? How?’</p>

<p>Margot told her.</p>

<p>‘I was going to be a secretary. I answered an
advertisement. And he said to send my photograph, so I
sent a little snapshot M’amselle took. I’ve never <span class='it'>really</span>
had my photograph taken you know—Papa wouldn’t
let me because of its getting into the papers. And the
man said I’d do splendidly, and I was going there
today.’</p>

<p>Margaret heaved a sigh of relief.</p>

<p>‘Then you’ve got work to go to.’</p>

<p>‘No, I haven’t—not now.’</p>

<p>‘Why haven’t you?’</p>

<p>‘Oh!’ said Margot. ‘He was a <span class='it'>beast</span>. Shall I tell you
about it?’</p>

<p>‘I think you’d better.’</p>

<p>‘Where shall I begin? Shall I begin with Egbert?’</p>

<p>‘Who is Egbert?’</p>

<p>‘Well, he’s my cousin, and he said he wanted to
marry me. And then I hid behind the sofa, and I heard
him planning awful things about <span class='it'>removing</span> me.’</p>

<p>This was what she had said last night. Margaret tried
to disentangle it.</p>

<p>‘What made you hide behind the sofa?’</p>

<p>Margot giggled.</p>

<p>‘Egbert said it would be a frightfully good thing for
me if I married him, and I said I’d rather marry an
organ-grinder, and I banged out of the room and went
and posted my letter to Stephanie. And when I came
back I wanted my book which I’d left in the drawing-room,
and I just opened the door to see if Egbert was
there. And he was. He was standing on a chair looking
at one of those frightful pictures of Papa’s which are
supposed to be worth such a lot of money—you know,
Lely, and Rubens, and Turner, and all that lot—only
Egbert says some of them aren’t—not really. He says
Papa got taken in over them.’</p>

<p>Turner—Lely—Rubens.</p>

<p>Margaret said, ‘Go on.’</p>

<p>‘Well, Egbert was standing on a chair, so I didn’t
think he’d see me; but he got down, and I had to hide.
And then he rang the bell.’</p>

<p>‘Well?’</p>

<p>‘It was William’s bell. He’s new since last time I was
home. He’s the stupidest footman we’ve ever had.’</p>

<p>‘Well? What about it?’</p>

<p>Margot leaned forward. She looked frightened.</p>

<p>‘Egbert rang the bell, and someone came—but it
couldn’t have been William, because Egbert told him
all about proposing to me, and he said he expected I
should have to be <span class='it'>removed</span>.’ She shivered and caught at
Margaret’s dress. ‘Margaret, what do you think he
<span class='it'>meant</span>?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know. You’re not making this up?’</p>

<p>Margot giggled.</p>

<p>‘I can’t make things up—I’m not a bit good at it.
But I’m quite good at remembering. Even M’amselle
said I was good at that. I can tell you every word they
said if you like.’</p>

<p>Encouraged by a nod, Margot proceeded to repeat
the conversation which she had overheard.</p>

<p>‘What do you think they <span class='it'>meant</span>?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know. Go on.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I just packed my box and sent the other footman
for a taxi. I thought I wouldn’t send William, and
I thought I wouldn’t stay till today in case of anybody
trying to <span class='it'>remove</span> me. It had a frightfully horrid sort of
sound—it did really—so I thought I wouldn’t stay.
And I thought Mr Percy Smith might just as well let
me come a day earlier, so I took a taxi—only I didn’t
go straight to his house because I didn’t want anyone
to know.’</p>

<p>‘What did you do?’</p>

<p>Margot looked innocently pleased with herself.</p>

<p>‘I told the man to go to Waterloo, and when he’d
gone away, I took another taxi—to Mr Percy Smith’s.
And that took every bit of the money I had except a
shilling. I’ve got the shilling still.’</p>

<p>‘And what happened at Mr Percy Smith’s?’ said
Margaret gravely.</p>

<p>Margot blushed scarlet.</p>

<p>‘He was a beast.’</p>

<p>‘You’d better tell me what happened.’</p>

<p>‘He had a horrid face—a <span class='it'>frightfully</span> horrid face.
And he said he was awfully pleased to see me. And he
took me into a room, and he said now I must have a
cocktail. And I said I’d rather not. And then he said a
lot of other things, and I didn’t like them. Need I tell
you the things he said?’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Margaret.</p>

<p>‘I don’t want to. I think he was a frightfully horrid
sort of man.’</p>

<p>‘How did you get away?’ said Margaret violently.</p>

<p>Margot stared and giggled.</p>

<p>‘He went out of the room—he said he wouldn’t be a
minute. And as soon as he’d gone, I got so frightened
that I opened the window. And there was an area, so I
didn’t think I could get out that way, and I was just
thinking what could I do, when the postman came up
to the door. And when I saw him, I ran out of the
room, and I got to the front door, and I opened it, and
the postman was gone. And I heard someone call out
behind me, and I was frightfully afraid and I ran. Do
you think it was silly of me?’</p>

<p>‘I should think it was probably the only sensible
thing you’d ever done in your life,’ said Margaret.</p>

<p>Margot giggled again.</p>

<p>‘You said that just like M’amselle, only she used to
say, “You are von little fool, Margot.” ’</p>

<p>The name dropped out negligently, Margaret hardly
needed it; the papers had been too full lately of Mr
Standing’s affairs. That he had a collection of valuable
pictures, and a nephew with the unusual name of
Egbert was public property. Margot Standing’s name
and the fact that she had just returned from Switzerland
were public property too.</p>

<p>The bell of the flat rang sharply.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XIX</h1></div>

<p>Margaret went to the door.</p>

<p>The flat consisted of two small rooms with a strip of
passage between them. Two thirds of the passage had
been walled off to make a kitchen about the size of a
boot-cupboard. The front door and the doors of the
two rooms opened into the remaining third; there was
just room for them and no more.</p>

<p>Margaret shut the sitting-room door and opened the
front door. Charles Moray stood there.</p>

<p>‘Well?’ he said.</p>

<p>‘She’s in there.’ Margaret indicated the sitting-room
with a nod.</p>

<p>‘Have you found out whether she’s a long-lost
relation?’</p>

<p>‘She isn’t.’</p>

<p>‘Look here, I want to talk to you.’</p>

<p>‘We’ll go over to Agatha Carthew’s flat—she’s away
for the weekend and I’ve got the key.’</p>

<p>They proceeded across the landing to Miss Carthew’s
flat. It appeared to be devoted to the rigours of
the simple life. There was linoleum on the floor and
distemper on the walls; there were two Windsor chairs
and a gate-leg table; and that was all.</p>

<p>Charles shut the door with a bang.</p>

<p>‘I suppose she had your bed last night, and you slept
on the floor,’ he began accusingly.</p>

<p>This was unexpected, and Margaret laughed.</p>

<p>‘Certainly not the floor.’</p>

<p>‘That beastly hard contraption I sampled when I was
waiting for you the other night then—and no bed-clothes.’</p>

<p>‘A rug,’ said Margaret firmly.</p>

<p>Charles made an enraged sound.</p>

<p>‘Who is this girl? You say she isn’t a relation. Are
you sure she isn’t?’</p>

<p>‘Quite sure.’</p>

<p>‘But her name—your mother’s name?’</p>

<p>‘That frightened me,’ said Margaret frankly. ‘But
there’s quite a simple explanation. She is—well, she’s a
goose, and she found what must have been a bit of a
letter from my mother with her signature. She told me
she thought it was a frightfully romantic name to go
out and earn her living with.’</p>

<p>Charles burst out laughing.</p>

<p>‘What a mind! Hasn’t she got a name of her own?’</p>

<p>There was a moment’s silence. Margaret’s troubled
voice broke in upon it.</p>

<p>‘I think I’d better tell you what she’s been telling me.
It’s all so odd, and I don’t know what to think. I mean
she may be making it up, or she may be—’ She
hesitated and then said, ‘Odd. I don’t know what to
think really.’</p>

<p>‘Better tell me the whole thing. And why not sit
down instead of wandering like something in a zoo?’</p>

<p>He himself was sitting on the corner of Miss Carthew’s
table. Margaret came to a standstill beside him.
She leaned on the back of one of the chairs.</p>

<p>‘I won’t sit—I don’t feel like it. Look here, this is
what she told me.’</p>

<p>She unfolded Margot’s tale in Margot’s own
ingenuous words and without comment, but she kept
her eyes on Charles. Charles, for his part, listened
impassively. She made nothing of his expression.</p>

<p>‘Of course, she’s a first-class little fool, but I don’t
think she’s capable of inventing all this. What do you
think? And does it occur to you that she may be somebody
who will be looked for?’</p>

<p>‘What do you mean by that, Margaret?’ said
Charles.</p>

<p>‘Just that.’</p>

<p>There was a pause. Charles looked at her, dived into
a pocket, and produced a copy of the <span class='it'>Evening Gossip</span>.
He unfolded it with a certain slow deliberation and
held it out. Margaret saw the large headlines and
caught the paper from his hand:</p>

<div class='lgc' style=''> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
<p class='line'>MISSING HEIRESS&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;INTERVIEW WITH</p>
<p class='line'>MR EGBERT STANDING</p>
<p class='line'>STRANGE STORY</p>
<p class='line'>&#160;</p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>She turned to get the light on the paper, and Charles
got off the table and read over her shoulder:</p>

<p>‘Has Miss Standing disappeared? When our
representative asked Mr Egbert Standing this question,
he replied to it in the negative. “My cousin,” he said,
“has suffered terribly from the shock of her father’s
death, and from the uncertainty of her own position. It
is by no means certain that she will inherit Mr Standing’s
fortune. My uncle left no will, and up to the
present no legal proof of his marriage has come to
light. In these circumstances my cousin decided to
leave London. We are not in any anxiety on her
account. We desire no publicity.” ’</p>

<p>There was a good deal more of this sort of thing.
There was an interview with the butler, who said that
Miss Standing left the house at half-past six on the previous
evening; she took a taxi to Waterloo and she had
with her a large brown trunk, the same she always took
to school.</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Charles, ‘What about it?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, she’s Margot Standing. I guessed that as soon
as she began to talk about her cousin Egbert and her
father’s collection of pictures. I’m sure she’s Margot
Standing—it’s her story I’m not sure about. What do
you make of it? It’s pretty unbelievable—isn’t it? I
don’t mean the Percy Smith part—that’s just the sort of
trap a little fool of a schoolgirl would walk into. I don’t
mean that; I mean all that part about her cousin and
the other man planning to remove her. What do you
make of that?’</p>

<p>Charles was making a good deal of it. He was
remembering his mother’s sitting-room, and the man
who had said, ‘Margot’, and then, ‘The girl may have
to be removed. A street accident would be the safest
way.’ And he was remembering that Margaret—<span class='it'>Margaret</span>—had
talked with this man, that Margaret
had been there. He wondered bitterly whether Margot
Standing had not jumped out of the frying-pan into the
fire.</p>

<p>‘Charles! Do say something! Do you think there’s
anything in it?’</p>

<p>‘Do you?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I do.’ The words burst out. ‘There’s something.
She’s a little fool; but she’s not mad, and she’s not
lying. What does it mean?’</p>

<p>Charles was standing very close to her. He had been
looking over her shoulder at the paper. Then as they
talked, she moved to face him. Now he touched her on
the arm, a quick, insistent touch.</p>

<p>‘Don’t you know what it means?’</p>

<p>‘No—how can I?’</p>

<p>‘You don’t know what it means?’</p>

<p>His tone startled her.</p>

<p>‘Charles—what—why should you say that?’</p>

<p>‘Don’t you know?’</p>

<p>She drew back, paler. Something in her eyes—distress,
anger—he wasn’t sure.</p>

<p>‘Charles, what are you saying? What do you mean?’</p>

<p>Charles put a hand on her shoulder.</p>

<p>‘Will you tell me that you’d never heard of Margot
Standing before?’</p>

<p>‘Of course I’ve heard of her. The papers—’</p>

<p>‘That isn’t what I mean. Will you tell me that you’d
never heard of her from another source?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know what you mean.’ Her eyes were angry.</p>

<p>‘Don’t you? Then will you tell me what you were
doing on the night of the third of October?’</p>

<p>‘The third?’ said Margaret. ‘The third?’ Her voice
changed suddenly as she repeated the word; she was
puzzled, and then she was frightened—sharply,
unexpectedly frightened.</p>

<p>Charles felt all the muscles of her shoulder stiffen
under his hand. He kept it there, holding her.</p>

<p>‘Will you tell me what you were doing in my house
that night?’</p>

<p>Margaret looked at him. Her eyes were dark and
fierce.</p>

<p>‘Well, Margaret?’ he said; and then, quickly, ‘Don’t
lie! I saw you.’</p>

<p>A wave of colour rushed into her face. She wrenched
her shoulder free and flung away from him.</p>

<p>‘How dare you say a thing like that? When did I ever
lie to you?’</p>

<p>‘When you said you loved me,’ said Charles, and saw
the colour ebb away and leave her fainting white.</p>

<p>She kept her eyes on his. They said, ‘I’ll never
forgive you.’ Then she turned from him and went to
the window. With her back to him, she said in a low,
hard voice,</p>

<p>‘You saw me?’</p>

<p>‘I saw you. And I heard—<span class='it'>things</span>.’</p>

<p>‘What did you hear?’</p>

<p>‘I heard—no, I won’t tell you what I heard. It’s no
good carrying coals to Newcastle.’</p>

<p>She turned at that.</p>

<p>‘What do you mean?’</p>

<p>‘That you know it already. I heard enough to make
me believe Margot Standing’s story.’</p>

<p>‘Tell me what you heard.’</p>

<p>‘Tell me what you were doing there.’</p>

<p>‘I can’t.’</p>

<p>‘Tell me whom you were meeting.’</p>

<p>‘I can’t.’</p>

<p>‘Margaret, for heaven’s sake! What sort of mess is
this you’ve got into? Can’t you tell me about it? Can’t
you trust me?’</p>

<p>‘I—<span class='it'>can’t</span>.’</p>

<p>His manner changed. He said lightly.</p>

<p>‘Then I’m afraid I can’t tell you what I heard.’</p>

<p>There was a silence. Margaret stood looking at him.
Her expression changed rapidly. He thought she was
going to speak; but instead she pressed her hand over
her eyes. The gesture shut him out, and shut her in. He
wondered what company she had in the darkness which
she was making for herself.</p>

<p>She dropped her hands at last. Her face was composed,
too much controlled to tell him anything. When
she spoke, her voice was quiet and a little tired. She
said,</p>

<p>‘Charles, what are we to do with her?’</p>

<p>The ‘we’ was unexpected; it startled him.</p>

<p>‘She doesn’t want to go back—she’s afraid to go
back.’</p>

<p>‘I think she has reason to be afraid,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>‘You do think so?’</p>

<p>‘Don’t you?’</p>

<p>Margaret grew very much paler.</p>

<p>‘Charles—’ she said. Then she stopped.</p>

<p>Charles looked at her. His look did not help her. It
was hard and steady.</p>

<p>‘Charles—’ she said again.</p>

<p>‘What are you trying to say?’</p>

<p>‘Charles, you asked me—what I know—I don’t—know—anything—’</p>

<p>‘You mean you don’t know anything that you can tell
me?’</p>

<p>‘No, I don’t mean that. There’s something—I can’t
tell you. But it’s not about Margot. I don’t know anything
about Margot.’ She paused; and all at once fire
and colour came back. ‘Do you think I’d hurt her?’</p>

<p>Charles did not think anything of the sort. No
evidence, not even his own, could make him think
Margaret capable of hurting any girl. Every instinct,
every memory rose up in her defence. He said soberly,</p>

<p>‘No, I don’t think you’d hurt her. There might—be
others.’</p>

<p>That struck her. She winced away from it.</p>

<p>‘She can’t go back,’ said Charles. ‘Can she stay here—<span class='it'>safely</span>?’</p>

<p>‘Why do you say that?’</p>

<p>‘You know. Is she safe here? Is she safe with you?’</p>

<p>Margaret lifted her head. The proud, familiar
gesture plucked at his heart.</p>

<p>‘Yes, she’s safe.’</p>

<p>‘Will you swear to that?’</p>

<p>‘Will you ask me to?’</p>

<p>Something passed between them—a wordless,
passionate question; a passionate, wordless answer.
Charles felt a rush of emotion that startled him. He said
quickly, ‘No’; and the moment passed.</p>

<p>Margaret smiled. She seemed to relax, to be more the
old Margaret than he had seen her yet.</p>

<p>‘Do you want me to keep her?’</p>

<p>‘Could you—for a day or two?’</p>

<p>‘I suppose I could.’</p>

<p>Neither of them seemed to think it strange that
Charles should be in charge. If Margot Standing had
been a stray kitten, the affair might have passed very
much as it was passing now. He led the way out of Miss
Carthew’s flat and into Margaret’s. She threw open the
sitting-room door and went in.</p>

<p>Miss Standing looked up very much as the kitten
might have done; there was the same grace of pose, the
same effect of soft roundness, the same wide-eyed
innocence.</p>

<p>‘This is Charles Moray who helped me to bring you
home last night,’ said Margaret.</p>

<p>Charles looked at Margot, and Margot gazed at
Charles. He saw the prettiest girl he had ever seen in his
life. He said,</p>

<p>‘How do you do, Miss Standing?’</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XX</h1></div>

<p>Margot accepted the name without protest. She blinked
those very black lashes, uncurled herself, and stood up.
She continued to look at Charles.</p>

<p>The colour in the old green jumper and skirt of
Margaret’s turned her pale blue eyes to turquoise
green. Sometimes the black lashes darkened them for
an instant. Her skin was amazingly fair and fine. The
roses in her cheeks were the prettiest pink roses in the
world.</p>

<p>She dimpled at Charles and inquired,</p>

<p>‘How did you know my name?’</p>

<p>‘I guessed.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t see how you could guess.’</p>

<p>‘Margaret guessed too.’</p>

<p>‘Did she? Margaret, how did you guess?’</p>

<p>‘If you want to keep your name a secret,’ said
Charles, ‘you mustn’t talk about your cousin Egbert.’</p>

<p>‘Or your father’s collection of Lelys and Turners.’
Margaret’s tone was a little hard.</p>

<p>Margot turned to Charles.</p>

<p>‘You won’t make me go back?’</p>

<p>‘Tell me why you don’t want to go back?’</p>

<p>Margot told him. The story was the same story that
she had told to Margaret, and that Margaret had
repeated to him. While she was speaking, he tried to
piece together what she had heard Egbert say, and
what he himself had overheard. The pieces fitted. But
there were gaps which he meant to fill.</p>

<p>‘You won’t send me back—will you? It’s such a big
house, and what they said about <span class='it'>removing</span> me gave me
a most frightful sort of creepy feeling. It really did.’</p>

<p>It gave Charles a creepy feeling too.</p>

<p>‘No, we won’t send you back. But I think you ought
to let your lawyer know where you are.’</p>

<p>Margot turned quite pale.</p>

<p>‘Mr Hale!’</p>

<p>‘Is that his name?’</p>

<p>‘Mr James Hale. His father was a friend of poor
Papa’s. He said Papa said all sorts of things to his
father.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I think you ought to tell him where you are.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, I don’t <span class='it'>want</span> to.’</p>

<p>‘Why on earth not?’</p>

<p>She leaned forward whispering,</p>

<p>‘I <span class='it'>thought</span>—perhaps he was the person who was
going to give the orders about <span class='it'>removing</span> me.’ She
shivered a little. ‘It would be frightful if I told him and
he <span class='it'>was</span>.’</p>

<p>Charles agreed—he remembered a certain reference
to ‘the lawyer’. Where everything was so uncertain, it
was better to take no step than a false one.</p>

<p>‘All right. You stay here, and we don’t tell anyone
for a day or two. I’ll try and find out about your Mr
Hale. What relations have you got?’</p>

<p>Margot giggled.</p>

<p>‘Everybody asks me that. I haven’t got any relations
except Egbert.’</p>

<p>‘What? None at all?’</p>

<p>‘Isn’t it funny not to have any? Papa only had one
brother, and he only had Egbert. Papa hated Egbert.
And if my relations were going to be like <span class='it'>him</span>, I’m
frightfully glad they never got born.’</p>

<p>‘What about your mother?’</p>

<p>Margot looked important.</p>

<p>‘I don’t <span class='it'>even</span> know her name—not for certain, you
know. I <span class='it'>think</span> it was Esther Brandon.’</p>

<p>Margaret swooped into the conversation.</p>

<p>‘Don’t say that!’</p>

<p>Margot stared at her.</p>

<p>‘I do think so. That’s why I took it. I think I’d better
be called Esther Brandon—don’t you? Because if I go
on being Margot Standing, those people might find
me.’</p>

<p>Margaret turned away. She said,</p>

<p>‘Don’t talk nonsense! You can’t call yourself Esther
Brandon.’</p>

<p>Then she went over to the bookcase, picked up a
book at random, and began to flick the pages over.</p>

<p>‘Why can’t I? Why is it nonsense?’ Margot spoke to
Charles, not to Margaret.</p>

<p>‘Well, there’s quite a good reason.’</p>

<p>‘But I can’t be Margot Standing.’</p>

<p>‘No, you can’t—can you? Let’s think of something
else. You can be Miss Smith.’</p>

<p>She gave a little shriek.</p>

<p>‘No, I can’t! Not Smith! Not after that horrible
Percy Smith!’</p>

<p>‘Brown then, or Wilson—unless you know any bad
Browns or wicked Wilsons.’</p>

<p>Margot giggled.</p>

<p>‘I’ll be Wilson—I’d rather be Wilson than Brown.’</p>

<p>‘Brown,’ said Charles reprovingly, ‘is a good old
Scottish name.’</p>

<p>‘I’ll be Wilson. Shall I be Margot Wilson?’</p>

<p>Charles considered the question, and shook his head.</p>

<p>‘No, I don’t think so. Margot is too uncommon.
We’ll make up something else out of Margaret. I
suppose you <span class='it'>are</span> Margaret?’</p>

<p>The other Margaret stood with her back to them,
flicking over the pages of her book. She had no idea
what the book was. Charles and Margot, sitting close
together, talking in low confidential tones, playing a
foolish game of names. It was her flat, and she had
known Charles Moray for fourteen years; but it was
she who had the sense of strangeness and intrusion—she,
and not Margot. Margot appeared to be perfectly
at home. She heard her giggle and protest, ‘I won’t be
Daisy!’</p>

<p>Charles offered her ‘Rita,’ and got a little shriek of
‘Oh—<span class='it'>no</span>!’ in reply.</p>

<p>‘Why not? It’s a very nice name.’</p>

<p>‘It’s not—it’s frightful.’</p>

<p>‘Have Madge then.’</p>

<p>‘That’s worse.’</p>

<p>‘Madge is a perfectly good name.’</p>

<p>‘I won’t have it.’</p>

<p>‘What about Margie?’</p>

<p>‘Frightful! It’s exactly like margarine.’</p>

<p>‘Well, there aren’t any others.’</p>

<p>‘There’s Meg,’ said Margot. ‘I wouldn’t mind being
Meg.’</p>

<p>Margaret felt as if someone had run a sharp knife into
her very suddenly. Charles had called her Meg just
once or twice—just once or twice. She did not hear
what he said. She turned another page and read: ‘Oh,
Greta’s banks are fresh and fair.’ She laughed and
called over her shoulder,</p>

<p>‘You can be Greta.’</p>

<p>Margot got up and ran to her.</p>

<p>‘Did you find it in your book? Let me see! I rather
like it. Where is it? Oh—why is it banks? Is it a river? It
says, “Greta’s banks are fresh and fair”.’</p>

<p>‘Very appropriate,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>The bell rang. Margaret pushed Sir Walter Scott
back into the bookshelf and went to the door. Mr
Archie Millar stood there with a deprecating smile.</p>

<p>‘I say, may I come in? Is there a spot of tea going?’</p>

<p>He was surprised at the warmth of his welcome,
surprised and a good deal stimulated. Margaret and he
had been very good pals for years. He began at this
moment to feel a faint dawn of sentiment.</p>

<p>Margaret went back into the sitting-room with a little
colour in her cheeks. Archie, behind her, caught sight
of Charles, hailed him, and then, beholding Miss
Margot Standing, stood agaze. It was Charles who rose
to the occasion.</p>

<p>‘This is Archie Millar. You’ll get used to him. Archie,
make your best bow to Miss Greta Wilson. She’s staying
with Margaret.’</p>

<p>The prettiest roses in the world became two shades
deeper. Miss Greta Wilson giggled, looked between her
black lashes, and found Archie a pleasant young man.
In half a minute they were deep in conversation. In
three minutes he had discovered that she had only just
left school, that she didn’t know anyone in London,
and that she loved revues, adored chocolates, and considered
<span class='it'>Moonlight and You</span> the divinest waltz <span class='it'>ever</span>.</p>

<p>Margaret had begun to get tea. She passed to and fro
from the minute kitchen. Charles did not offer to help
her. He stood by the window looking down absently
upon the darkening street. The lime-tree over the way
had begun to lose its leaves; those that still remained
were as golden as ripe corn. What on earth were they to
do with the girl, far too pretty not to be remembered,
far too naïve and inexperienced to be set adrift on
dangerous waters full of strange cross currents and
secret depths? A golden leaf fell wavering to the ground.
Archie’s voice broke in:</p>

<p>‘Charles! Here, wake up! What about our all goin’
on the bust tonight? A festive beano—what?’</p>

<p>Charles shook his head, and was adjured not to look
like an undertaker’s assistant.</p>

<p>‘She says she hasn’t seen a thing—you did say you
hadn’t didn’t you?’</p>

<p>Miss Greta Wilson nodded.</p>

<p>‘Appallin’—isn’t it? I don’t see how we can let it go
on for another day. What about dinner for four and the
best show we can get into at this sort of last moment?’</p>

<p>Charles shook his head again. The prospect of producing
Greta in public was a daunting one—‘She’s too
pretty by half, and Lord knows whom we should
meet.’</p>

<p>‘Then what about you and me?’ said Archie. ‘I
must have somethin’ to cheer me up after the horrid
blow I’ve just had—straight out of the blue, and no
time to put an umbrella up.’ He addressed Miss Greta
Wilson, who inquired if it were raining.</p>

<p>Archie looked at her reproachfully.</p>

<p>‘I’ve had a blow that’s dashed my proudest hopes
into what-you-may-call-’ems.’</p>

<p>‘What has happened, Archie?’ said Margaret. ‘Tea is
ready.’</p>

<p>‘Unconscious of their doom, the little blighters
played.’</p>

<p>‘What little blighters? Yes, Charles, two more
chairs.’</p>

<p>‘My fondest hopes,’ said Archie—‘shattered by a
bolt.’ He produced a crumpled copy of the evening
paper and waved it. ‘I shall want heaps and heaps of
tea. The blow has driven me to drink.’</p>

<p>‘What on earth’s happened? Charles, will you cut
the bread? The knife’s most awfully blunt.’</p>

<p>‘There’s womanly sympathy for you!’ said Archie.
‘I’ve got a broken heart, and she talks about blunt
knife! I’ve lost my heiress. Pain and anguish wring my
brow. And no one offers to be a ministerin’ angel—unless
Greta will. Will you be a ministerin’ angel,
Greta?’</p>

<p>The late Miss Margot Standing dimpled, coloured,
and said,</p>

<p>‘It’s frightfully romantic. I’d love to.’</p>

<p>‘Here’s your tea, Archie. I didn’t know you’d got an
heiress. Charles, that’s yours—there are four lumps of
sugar in it.’</p>

<p>‘Nobody knew but me. Concealment’s been preyin’
like a tiddleyum upon my damask cheek—Shakespeare!
And I’ve been sittin’ like Patience on a thing-ummy-jig
smilin’ at grief—more Shakespeare—same speech—<span class='it'>ibid</span>,
as they say in the books.’</p>

<p>‘Who was she?’</p>

<p>‘She <span class='it'>wasn’t</span> an heiress,’ said Archie mournfully.
‘What’s the good of my fixin’ my young affections on a
girl with several millions tacked on, when the evenin’
paper suddenly bursts out with the horrid bomb that
she isn’t goin’ to have the millions after all? Alas, they
are another’s; they never can be mine—not Shakespeare
this time. The cash is Egbert’s.’</p>

<p>Greta dropped her teacup with a splash. The tea
dripped on the green jumper. She repeated, ‘Egbert!’
giggled, and repeated it again.</p>

<p>‘Egbert Standing,’ said Archie. ‘Revoltin’ name!
The daily press that never lies says that Egbert scoops
the lot—he gets the whole caboodle, and Margot
doesn’t even get a smell of it. I’ve taken to drink.’</p>

<p>He passed up his cup.</p>

<p>Miss Greta Wilson made no attempt to wipe the tea
off her jumper. She fixed her pale blue eyes on Archie
with the unwinking stare of a kitten and asked,</p>

<p>‘Did you know her?’</p>

<p>Archie shook his head.</p>

<p>‘Perhaps she’s frightfully ugly,’ pursued Greta.</p>

<p>‘She’s probably hideous,’ said Archie. ‘If she weren’t,
there’d have been about a million photos of her in all
the papers.’</p>

<p>Greta’s colour rose.</p>

<p>‘Would you marry a girl who was perfectly hideous,
just because she had heaps of money?’</p>

<p>‘Ah!’ said Archie. ‘If it were to keep my Aunt
Elizabeth’s parrot out of the workhouse, I might. Some
day I’ll tell you all about it—“A Hero’s Sublime
Sacrifice. A Parrot’s Trust Rewarded. Devoted
Nephew Saves Indigent Feathered Friend. Matchless
Masterpiece In Seventeen Episodes Featurin’ Archibald
Millar.” Hullo, that’s an idea! Let’s all go to the pictures.
I feel as if it might soothe me to sit in the dark and hold
Margaret’s hand.’ He said ‘Margaret’, but he looked at
Greta.</p>

<p>Greta blushed.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXI</h1></div>

<p>They went to the cinema. Charles did not see very
much of the film. What on earth were they to do with
the girl? Margaret was out all day. Would Greta sit at
home like a good little girl and twiddle her thumbs? ‘I
<span class='it'>don’t</span> think,’ said Charles. He gazed gloomily at a
close-up of a glad-eyed heroine embracing a strong,
silent hero. The embrace seemed to last an unconscionable
time.</p>

<p>They came out into a fine drizzle of rain. Charles
felt himself touched on the arm. He looked round and
saw an old lady in a black cloak and an old-fashioned
bonnet. She was holding up an umbrella, but she held it
tilted sideways so that Charles could see her face. Under
the meekly banded hair Miss Maud Silver’s nondescript
eyes looked at him.</p>

<p>For a yard or two they walked side by side. The
umbrella was no longer tilted, but a small, old voice
spoke from beneath it:</p>

<p>‘Jaffray is just ahead of us—there, beyond the big
man in the overcoat. I’d like you to follow him. He’s
going to meet someone.’</p>

<p>Charles said, ‘All right,’ and looked round for the
rest of his party. Archie was in the road waving to a
taxi; Margaret and Greta on the kerb.</p>

<p>He reached Margaret, said goodnight hurriedly,
and pursued the deaf man. It was easy enough to keep
him in view without being remarked as long as the
pavement was so crowded; one had only just to keep
one’s own place in the stream and move with it.
Presently, however, there was no stream, and Charles
fell back a little. Mr Jaffray got into a Hammersmith
bus, and as he went inside, Charles thought it as well to
go outside.</p>

<p>At Hammersmith Broadway Jaffray got out and
walked again. Charles kept the other side of the narrow
street. It went on drizzling, but Jaffray had no umbrella,
nor had Charles. He reflected that an umbrella was the
best disguise in the world.</p>

<p>Jaffray walked on and on. Charles had been wondering
whether the man was merely going home; but he
passed the turning that led to Gladys Villas and kept on
at the same steady pace. When he came to the Great
West Road, he turned on to it and kept on walking.
Charles began to wonder whether he meant to walk to
Slough—or Bath. However, after a quarter of a mile
Jaffray stopped, took out a watch, looked at it, and
began to walk slowly up and down.</p>

<p>Charles felt at a disadvantage. There is no cover on
the Great West Road. Pedestrians are sufficiently few
in number to attract attention, and every inch of the
roadway and the spaces beside it were continually lit
up by the glare of passing headlights. The place was
about as public as the middle of an empty ballroom,
and almost as brightly lighted.</p>

<p>Jaffray walked up and down, and Charles lurked as
far from the track of the headlights as he could. Ten
minutes passed. Charles decided that he had no
vocation for the life of a sleuth; it appeared to him
utterably dreary, boring, flat, and dull. If it hadn’t been
so damp, he would have sat down, gone to sleep—and
finished the night as a drunk at the nearest police
station. This exhilarating thought had just occurred to
him, when something happened.</p>

<p>A large Daimler coming from London slowed down
as it passed him and stopped near Jaffray. It stopped at
the moment that Jaffray was shaking out an unusually
large white handkerchief.</p>

<p>Charles meandered slowly towards the car. It had a
London number. He noted it. By the time he had done
this, Jaffray was in the car, and the car was off.</p>

<p>One cannot pursue a Daimler on foot. Charles went
home in a most disgruntled mood.</p>

<p>On Monday morning he visited Miss Silver. She had
finished the grey stockings, and was knitting something
small, white, and fleecy that looked like a baby’s boot.
She nodded to Charles and went on knitting.</p>

<p>‘Sit down, Mr Moray. Did you follow Jaffray?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I did.’</p>

<p>‘What happened?’</p>

<p>Charles told her what happened. She nodded again.</p>

<p>‘Yes, I knew it would be the Great West Road, and I
didn’t think my make-up was altogether suitable. Did
you see who was in the car?’</p>

<p>‘One man.’</p>

<p>‘Did you see his face?’</p>

<p>The busy needles stopped for a moment as she asked
the question.</p>

<p>‘He was wearing dark goggles,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>Miss Silver went on knitting.</p>

<p>‘I wish you had seen his face—but it can’t be
helped.’</p>

<p>‘I’ve got the number of the car.’</p>

<p>‘So have I,’ said Miss Silver. ‘Jaffray bought it on
Friday.’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Jaffray</span> bought it!’</p>

<p>‘Jaffray bought it from Hogstone and Cornhill. He
paid for it in notes and took it away on Saturday afternoon
to a garage in the Fulham Road.’</p>

<p>‘Who fetched it away?’ said Charles.</p>

<p>‘Jaffray did. He called for it about eight o’clock on
Saturday evening.’</p>

<p>Charles frowned.</p>

<p>‘Jaffray called for it, but someone else drove it down
the Great West Road and picked Jaffray up at eleven
o’clock—’</p>

<p>‘Of course I don’t know,’ said Miss Silver; ‘but
Jaffray probably parked the car somewhere, and the
owner picked it up.’</p>

<p>‘Who is the owner?’</p>

<p>‘I wish you had seen his face,’ said Miss Silver.</p>

<p>‘You don’t know?’</p>

<p>‘No, I don’t know. I have the numbers of the notes. I
will try and trace them back.’ There was a pause. Then
she said, ‘Have you anything to tell me, Mr Moray?’</p>

<p>Charles said, ‘No,’ and then added, ‘I’ve things to
ask you. I want to know more about the servants in the
Standing household.’</p>

<p>‘Who do you want to know about?’</p>

<p>‘All the men servants, I think—a footman called
William in particular.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver laid down her white fleecy knitting and
took up the brown exercise-book.</p>

<p>‘I have some notes about the servants here.’ She
turned the pages and read; ‘ “Pullen”—the butler’s
name is Pullen.’</p>

<p>‘How long has he been there?’</p>

<p>‘A few weeks only. I was going to explain that to you—none
of the servants have been there for more than a
few weeks with the exception of the housekeeper,
Mrs Long, and her daughter, who is head housemaid.
The house was shut up all the summer. Miss Standing
was abroad for the summer holidays with her chaperone,
Mrs Beauchamp. Mr Standing was not in town. Mrs
Long and her daughter act as caretakers, and Mrs
Long engages servants when Mr Standing wishes the
house to be opened. He came back for a fortnight in
September, and was expected again next month. All
the servants were engaged in September. Is that clear?’</p>

<p>‘Quite.’</p>

<p>‘Pullen, then, is the butler. I have what the French
would call his <span class='it'>dossier</span>. His last place was with the
Dowager Lady Perringham at her place in Dalesshire.’
Miss Silver broke off and coughed gently. ‘Lady
Perringham was fortunate enough not to suffer from the
epidemic of burglary which took place in her neighbourhood
last year.’</p>

<p>‘There were burglaries?’</p>

<p>‘I thought perhaps you might have read about them.
Most of the big houses in the neighbourhood suffered.
The historic Dale Leston silver was stolen, and has
never been recovered. The Kingmore pearls were
taken. Lady Perringham was fortunate. Pullen was
with her for six months. Before that he was in Scotland
with Mr Mackay. Do you remember the St Andrade
burglary?’</p>

<p>Charles shook his head.</p>

<p>‘I’ve been in the wilds.’</p>

<p>‘Mr St Andrade is a Brazilian millionaire—that is,
he made his money in Brazil. His wife had a collar of
emeralds which were reputed to be the finest in the
world. They were stolen whilst Mr St Andrade was
occupying a shooting-box about five miles from Mr
Mackay’s. The thief was surprised, and the emeralds
were dropped by him in his flight.’</p>

<p>‘I see,’ said Charles. ‘Go on.’</p>

<p>‘There are two footmen,’ said Miss Silver. ‘Frederick
Smith—no, I don’t think there’s really anything of
interest with regard to Frederick Smith—a coachman’s
son; very respectable; last character satisfactory,
three years. The other footman is William Cole. He
was for three months with Mrs James Barnard, and left
at the close of the season with a good character. The
only curious thing about William Cole is this—I can’t
find out where he came from, or what he was doing
before he went to Mrs James Barnard.’</p>

<p>‘Did anything odd happen whilst he was there—to
Mrs Barnard or to any of her friends?’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Miss Silver. ‘No—not exactly, Mr Moray.
Of course there was the scandal about Mr Barnard’s
nephew.’</p>

<p>‘What scandal?’</p>

<p>‘It was hushed up. He was said to have forged his
uncle’s name. He has left the country, I understand.’</p>

<p>There seemed to be a lot of tangled threads that led
nowhere.</p>

<p>Charles hesitated. Then he said.</p>

<p>‘There is some connection between William Cole
and Egbert Standing. I think Egbert Standing is
Number Thirty-two of Grey Mask’s little lot. William is
probably Twenty-seven—I’m not sure—it might be
Pullen. I don’t know about Pullen—he sounds a bit
fishy. But I’m sure William is in it up to the neck, and I
rather think he’s Number Twenty-seven.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver turned back the pages of the brown copy-book.</p>

<p>‘Twenty-seven came to report. You saw him. What
was he like?’</p>

<p>‘I saw his back—tallish—thinnish—bowler hat—overcoat.
Any number of him walking about all over
London.’</p>

<p>‘It might be William,’ said Miss Silver. ‘Pullen is
the typical butler—a stout sedate person.’</p>

<p>‘It wasn’t Pullen.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver fixed her eyes upon him.</p>

<p>‘Why do you think it was William?’</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid I can’t tell you that.’</p>

<p>‘You are not being very frank, are you?’</p>

<p>‘Not very,’ said Charles with a disarming smile.</p>

<p>Miss Silver sighed. After a pause she proceeded to
give the dull histories of housemaids, bootboys, and so
forth.</p>

<p>‘Any news of Miss Standing?’ said Charles.</p>

<p>Miss Silver gazed placidly at him.</p>

<p>‘Do you wish me to give you news of Miss Standing?’
she said.</p>

<p>It was years since Charles had blushed; he did not
blush now. He smiled delightfully.</p>

<p>‘Or of Miss Langton?’ said Miss Silver, still gazing.</p>

<p>She saw the dark colour come into his face. With a
little nod she turned her attention to the white boottee.</p>

<p>Charles took his leave. He admired Miss Silver; but
he became aware that he was a good deal afraid of her.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXII</h1></div>

<p>Whilst Charles was interviewing Miss Silver, Miss
Greta Wilson was writing to Stephanie Polson.</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p>Oh, Stephanie, I’ve had the most thrilling adventures.
I’m really having them still. It’s frightfully
exciting, and you’ll be frightfully angry with me,
because I can’t tell you about them—at least I can
only tell you bits, because I promised Charles and
Margaret I wouldn’t tell anyone the other bits—at
least not till they said I could. So you’ll just have to
be frightfully angry. I’m staying with Margaret, and
I can’t even tell you her name or give you my
address, because that’s one of the bits I promised not
to. Margaret is a dear, and so is Charles. Margaret
has known him for years and years and years, but I
do believe he really likes me best, because he took
me out for the whole day yesterday which was
Sunday, and he didn’t take Margaret, though it’s her
day at home. She works in a hat-shop every day, and
she doesn’t get home till half-past six—so it would be
very dull for me, only Charles says he will come and
cheer me up. Archie would come too if he could.
Archie is another friend of Margaret’s. He and
Charles are friends too. It’s frightfully jolly everyone
being friends, after having such a dreadfully dull
time. Archie can’t come and take me out like Charles
can, because he has to go to his office. He says he is an
oddment in a publishing firm. He says they only took
him because his uncle was in it. He says he is rotten
at it. But I think he is frightfully clever—he knows
lots of quotations out of Shakespeare and other people
like that. I don’t know whether I like him best or
Charles. Charles is an explorer, but he isn’t exploring
just now. He is the handsomest. He has grey eyes
and a most frightfully romantic frown, but he isn’t
quite as tall as Archie is. Archie is five feet eleven
and three-quarters, and he says if he hadn’t been
brought up frightfully strictly and simply made to
tell the truth, he would call it six foot. He has got
blue eyes, but not many eyelashes—just ordinary,
you know. But Charles has a lot of black eyelashes
and frightfully black eyebrows. They go all twisty
when he is cross. I shouldn’t like them to go all
twisty at me.</p>

<p>Saturday was the first day I was with Margaret,
and Charles and Archie came to tea, and we all went
to the cinema and saw a most frightfully thrilling
drama—only I can’t tell you about it now. Archie
came home with us, but Charles rushed off in a
frightfully sudden sort of way as soon as we came
out. On Sunday morning he came quite early with a
car, and he said would I like to go down to Bognor,
and I said I would, and we went. He didn’t ask
Margaret.</p>

<p>In the evening he and Archie came to supper.
They brought their supper with them because
Margaret said she hadn’t any. Archie brought
sardines and bananas, and Charles all sorts of
exciting things—lots more than we could eat, so
Margaret and I are eating them up—they are frightfully
good. He brought chocolates too—really
thrilling ones. I think I really do like Charles best.
But I like Archie too. After supper Mr Pelham
came in. He is Margaret’s stepfather, and I’m not
sure whether I ought to have said what his name
was, so don’t tell anyone and <span class='it'>tear my letter up</span>, because
I sort of promised Margaret I wouldn’t say anyone’s
name. But I think she’s a bit of a fuss, don’t you?
It isn’t as if you’d be seeing Egbert—is it? Margaret’s
stepfather is frightfully nice. They all call him
Freddy. He said I could too. I’ve never called such
an old person by their Christian name before, so I
didn’t do it at first—not till he seemed quite hurt
and said didn’t I like him. So of course I said I did,
and then I called him Freddy, only I got most
frightfully red when I did it, and they all laughed,
and Freddy said he felt most frightfully flattered,
and he said might he have the pleasure of taking me
to a matinee, and what would I like to see, and could
I come on Wednesday? But I said couldn’t it be
Saturday so Margaret could come too? And he said
‘All right’, and he asked Charles to come, and
Charles said he would. He didn’t like it when Freddy
asked me, nor did Margaret. I don’t know why they
didn’t. Archie couldn’t come because he was playing
a football match. Charles says he is very good at it.</p>

<p>I mustn’t write any more, because I shall use all
Margaret’s paper, and I’ve only got a shilling to buy
any more. When you’ve only got a shilling, there are
hundreds of things you want to buy.</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>MARGOT</p>

</div>

<div><h1>Chapter XXIII</h1></div>

<p>Charles went back to Miss Silver next day.</p>

<p>‘Do you know anything of one Ambrose Kimberley?’
he inquired.</p>

<p>Miss Silver dropped a stitch and picked it up again
before she answered:</p>

<p>‘I know the name.’ Then, before Charles could say
anything more, she spoke briskly: ‘There are some
things I want to tell you, Mr Moray. I should have
telephoned to you if you hadn’t come in.’</p>

<p>‘Go on,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>She took up the brown exercise-book.</p>

<p>‘We’ll take Jaffray first. He came back on Sunday. I
haven’t been able to trace the car yet.’</p>

<p>‘Or the owner?’</p>

<p>‘Or the owner.’ She tapped the page with a knitting-needle.
‘So much for Jaffray. I really wanted to see you
about William Cole. I have found out who he is.’</p>

<p>‘Is he someone?’</p>

<p>‘He is Leonard Morrison.’</p>

<p>Charles look blank.</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid that conveys nothing to me.’</p>

<p>‘Nonsense!’ said Miss Silver. ‘Six years ago—the
Thale-Morrison case—you must remember it.’</p>

<p>Charles began to remember.</p>

<p>‘You don’t mean to say that William—?</p>

<p>‘Is Morrison? Yes, I do. He’d have got a life sentence
if it had not been for his youth. He was, I think, only
just eighteen, and the Court took it into account.’</p>

<p>Charles began to remember the case—a horrible one.</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Miss Silver. She nodded, as if in answer
to something which he had not said. ‘Yes, a most cold-blooded,
dangerous young man and an astonishingly
good actor. All through the trial he was acting, and the
Court pronounced sentence on a dull backward lout of
a lad. They never had a glimpse of the real Leonard
Morrison.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver fixed a direct look upon Charles Moray.</p>

<p>‘Mr Moray, I want to ask you very seriously what
you’re going to do.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>‘How long are you going to wait before you call in the
police?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t propose to call in the police.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver sighed gently.</p>

<p>‘You will have to call them in in the end. How far
are you going to let things go before you take a step
which you ought to have taken at the very beginning?’</p>

<p>Charles set his jaw.</p>

<p>‘Do you think they would have believed me if I had
gone to them?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know.’</p>

<p>‘I do. They would have said I was drunk, and I
should have been told in quite polite officialese to go
home and boil my head. Come, Miss Silver! Did you
believe my story yourself?’</p>

<p>Miss Silver closed the exercise-book and sat back in
her chair.</p>

<p>‘Since you ask me, Mr Moray, I was inclined to
think you had been dining a little too well. You did not
appear to me to be suffering from hallucinations. No, I
must confess I thought you had been—shall I say—celebrating
your return.’</p>

<p>‘And you still think so?’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Miss Silver.</p>

<p>‘Well?’</p>

<p>‘I believe that you stumbled upon a very dangerous
set of people engaged in a criminal conspiracy. I
believe Miss Standing to be in serious danger, and I ask
you again—how far are you going to let matters go?’
She coughed very gently and added, ‘You will not be
able to screen Miss Langton indefinitely.’</p>

<p>Charles was stabbed by a most acute and poignant
fear. He mastered his voice and said coolly,</p>

<p>‘What do you mean?’</p>

<p>Miss Silver shook her head.</p>

<p>‘Now, Mr Moray, what is the use of our pretending
any longer? I am going to lay my cards on the table,
and you would be very well advised to do the same. I
know perfectly well that Miss Standing has been staying
with Miss Langton since Friday night. She left
home at about six o’clock on Friday, and Miss Langton
brought her back to her flat in a taxi at a quarter to
eleven. I don’t know what happened in the interval.
Naturally, you do.’</p>

<p>‘Do I?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, I think so. You helped Miss Langton to get
Miss Standing upstairs—she was exhausted and
hysterical.’</p>

<p>‘She had had a fright,’ said Charles, ‘nothing serious.’</p>

<p>‘I’m glad to know that. I don’t ask you why you
were not frank with me about Miss Standing’s whereabouts.’
She coughed again. ‘I don’t ask you, because I
know.’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Charles pleasantly, ‘what do you know?
Or shall I say, what do you think you know?’</p>

<p>Miss Silver took up her knitting. She had arrived at
the toe of the little white bootee.</p>

<p>‘I will tell you what I think. You stumbled upon a
conspiracy. You saw a number of people whom you
did not recognize. They were men. Well, I think, Mr
Moray, that you saw another person whom you did
recognize. I think this person, was a woman—I think it
was Miss Langton.’</p>

<p>‘What a remarkably vivid imagination you have,
Miss Silver!’ said Charles.</p>

<p>Miss Silver counted her stitches—three—four—five—six—seven.
After a moment’s pause she spoke again:</p>

<p>‘I think so because I cannot account otherwise for
your allowing Miss Standing to run so many risks. She
should be under police protection. You know that, I
think.’</p>

<p>‘She’s under Miss Langton’s protection, and mine.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver looked at him sorrowfully.</p>

<p>‘You have confidence in Miss Langton’s protection?’</p>

<p>‘Complete confidence. Besides, they don’t know where
she is.’</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid they do.’</p>

<p>Charles was really startled.</p>

<p>‘What makes you think so?’</p>

<p>‘You mentioned a name when, you came in, Mr
Moray—you asked me if I knew anything about
Ambrose Kimberley. Why did you ask me that?’</p>

<p>There was a silence. Miss Silver broke it.</p>

<p>‘Pray, Mr Moray, be frank with me,’ she said. ‘In a
matter as serious as this, I must warn you that concealment
is a very dangerous policy for yourself, for Miss
Standing, and, in the long run, for Miss Langton too.’
She coughed in her gentle ineffective way. ‘I will tell
you about Ambrose Kimberley. I spoke of him yesterday;
but not, I think, by name.’</p>

<p>‘Yesterday?’</p>

<p>‘I told you that William Cole had been for three
months with Mrs James Barnard, and when you asked
me whether there had been any trouble in the family
during that time, I mentioned that a nephew of Mr
Barnard’s had left the country in disgrace.’</p>

<p>‘What about it?’</p>

<p>‘The nephew’s name was Ambrose Kimberley.’</p>

<p>There was a long pause. Charles stared at the bare
wall in front of him, which was not bare to him; he saw
pictures on it. He turned from the pictures to Miss
Silver.</p>

<p>‘Ambrose Kimberley called at Miss Langton’s flat
yesterday. He found Miss Standing alone there. By the
way, as you know everything, you probably know that
we thought it wise to change her name.’</p>

<p>‘To Greta Wilson—yes, I know that.’</p>

<p>‘Kimberley introduced himself as a friend of Miss
Langton’s. As a matter of fact, she met him twice last
winter at dances. When was he supposed to have left
the country?’</p>

<p>‘I think it was in June. The affair was kept very
secret, you understand. There were no proceedings. Mr
Barnard pocketed his loss, and only about half a dozen
people knew that anything had happened. Now, Mr
Moray, I asked you just now whether you thought Miss
Langton was to be trusted. Do you still think so after
hearing what I have just told you?’</p>

<p>‘Why not?’</p>

<p>‘Who gave away Miss Standing’s whereabouts?’</p>

<p>‘Someone saw her, I suppose,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>‘Someone? You have to remember how very few
people know her by sight. She had not been in England
for a year. She had not been photographed. She only
came to Miss Langton late on Friday night.’</p>

<p>‘She was at a cinema on Saturday.’</p>

<p>‘In a hat that practically hid her face. I saw her, you
know; and I should be hard put to it to remember her.
Between that hat and her big fur collar there was very
little to recognize.’</p>

<p>Charles moved impatiently. Miss Silver went on:</p>

<p>‘Ambrose Kimberley turned up on Monday. Do you
believe that he came to see Miss Langton? Mr Moray,
you are playing a very dangerous game.’</p>

<p>Charles Moray’s face was cold and hard.</p>

<p>‘You had better speak plainly,’ he said.</p>

<p>‘I am speaking very plainly—I am warning you that
Miss Langton is not to be trusted—I am warning you
that Margot Standing is in serious danger.’</p>

<p>‘Not unless one of those certificates turns up,’ said
Charles quickly. ‘They won’t bother with her if she’s
illegitimate—why should they? Egbert Standing gets
the money. That’s all they want, isn’t it?’</p>

<p>‘They wanted him to marry her, didn’t they? And
she refused. Why don’t you tell me what you know
about that?’</p>

<p>Charles got up.</p>

<p>‘Miss Silver—’</p>

<p>‘You had much better tell me everything.’</p>

<p>A bitter gleam of humour crossed his face.</p>

<p>‘If I don’t tell you, you find out. Is that what you
mean?’</p>

<p>‘It saves trouble.’</p>

<p>‘If I tell you—’ He burst into hard laughter.</p>

<p>‘Sit down, Mr Moray.’</p>

<p>Charles walked up and down.</p>

<p>‘I’ll tell you what she told us. You’re right—you’d
better know—I don’t want to keep you in the dark.
You’re wrong about Miss Langton—utterly wrong.
I’ve known her for years. She is incapable—’</p>

<p>‘Of letting anyone down?’</p>

<p>The colour rushed violently into Charles Moray’s
face.</p>

<p>‘Sit down, Mr Moray,’ said Miss Silver.</p>

<p>Charles sat down, and told her Margot’s story as
Margot had told it to Margaret.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXIV</h1></div>

<p>When he had finished, Miss Silver laid her knitting in
her lap.</p>

<p>‘Just a moment, Mr Moray. I think we want to get
things clear. We have a conspiracy, and there are a
number of persons whom we suspect of being involved
in it. You have the advantage of having seen some of
these people. I would like to go back to the night of
October third and just see whether any of these people
can be identified. You looked into the room where the
man in the grey mask was transacting his business. You
saw him—’</p>

<p>Charles shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p>‘I saw nothing that anyone could recognize. I can
think of no one whom I suspect of being Grey Mask.’</p>

<p>‘I have come across him before,’ said Miss Silver
‘—not as Grey Mask of course; but in the last five
or six years I have constantly come across small bits of
evidence which have led me to suspect that there is one
man behind a number of co-ordinated criminal enterprises.
He pulls a great many strings, and every now
and then I have come across one of them. Well—there
was a second man sitting with his back to you.’</p>

<p>‘In an overcoat and a felt hat,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>‘You didn’t see his face?’</p>

<p>‘Not a glimpse.’</p>

<p>‘You heard his voice?’</p>

<p>‘A very ordinary one,’ said Charles, ‘no accent.’</p>

<p>‘What make of man?’</p>

<p>‘Fairly broad in the shoulders. Not tall, from the
way he was sitting.’</p>

<p>‘It might have been Pullen,’ said Miss Silver
meditatively.</p>

<p>‘It might have been ten thousand other people,’ said
Charles with impatience.</p>

<p>Miss Silver went on in a placid voice:</p>

<p>‘Then there was another man keeping the door. They
alluded to him as Forty. Well, we know that Forty
is Jaffray, who was Mr Standing’s valet and on
board the yacht when Mr Standing was drowned. You
did not actually hear Mr Standing’s name mentioned;
but you picked up a piece of paper with the last syllable
of his name, and you heard one of the men speak of
Margot. Grey Mask spoke of Forty having been at sea,
and made a number of allusions to his connection with
an unnamed man afterwards drowned. It is clear that
the late Mr Standing was meant. Now we pass to the
fourth man—Twenty-seven. He came in to report. I
think he was William Cole. And I think the man with
no number was Pullen. A fifth man, who was described
as a jellyfish and as being unwilling to marry the girl, is
certainly Egbert Standing.’</p>

<p>Charles nodded.</p>

<p>‘I give you Egbert. But as to the rest, it’s the very
purest conjecture.’ He laughed. ‘You ask me when I’m
going to the police. What do you suppose they would
make of those surmises of yours? Pullen is secretary of
a criminal conspiracy because Lady Perringham didn’t
lose her pearls whilst he buttled for her. You see?
William Cole has been in prison; therefore he is Number
Twenty-seven, with a roving commission to murder
inconvenient heiresses. Good Lord! You ask why I
don’t go to the police? What sort of fool should I look if
I did? I saw hats, overcoats, a muffler, a mask, and a
shirt-front. I should be making a prize ass of myself,
and you know it.’</p>

<p>He laughed again. He was fighting desperately for
Margaret, and fighting in the dark. They were lovers
no more, and friends no more; but the instinct to fight
for her survived both love and friendship; it rose up in
him hard and stark. He plunged on:</p>

<p>‘What beats me is why they should have pitched on
my house as a rendezvous.’</p>

<p>‘Oh—’ said Miss Silver mildly, ‘I think I can explain
that. It is a point I was about to mention. You have a
caretaker called Lattery. He is a married man. Do you
happen to know Mrs Lattery’s maiden name?’</p>

<p>‘No, I don’t.’</p>

<p>‘It was Pullen,’ said Miss Silver,—‘Eliza Pullen.’</p>

<p>Charles exclaimed.</p>

<p>‘Pullen!’</p>

<p>‘Pullen the butler is her brother. It would be easy for
him to find out just when the house would be empty;
and a big empty house would make a very good meeting
place. Your house offers peculiar advantages. Thorney
Lane is not much frequented, and the alley-way by
which access may be had to the garden is very dark and
lonely.’</p>

<p>Charles whistled.</p>

<p>Miss Silver waited a moment. Then she said,</p>

<p>‘Yes, Mr Moray. To continue—On the night of
October third Miss Langton was in your house, and it
would help me very much if you would be frank about
this. I know that you were once engaged, and if Miss
Langton’s visit was, if I may say so, a <span class='it'>personal</span> one, it
would of course alter the whole situation—No, Mr
Moray—a moment. I will say nothing that is not
necessary; but if Miss Langton had come there to meet
you, it would account for a good deal—it would
account for your reticence and for your desire to keep
the matter out of the hands of the police. It is even
possible that Miss Langton was seen by Pullen or one of
the others, and that this increases your apprehension on
her account—it would be very natural, and, if I may
say so, very pardonable.’</p>

<p>She smiled a little deprecating smile. Charles met it
with a blank expression.</p>

<p>‘And if Miss Langton <span class='it'>had</span> come to see me, would
there have been anything very strange or compromising
in that? She has been free of the house since she was
a child. I have known her since she was ten years old,
Miss Silver. Will you say there was any reason why we
should not have met? Wouldn’t it be perfectly natural
in the circumstances?’</p>

<p>‘Oh yes,’ said Miss Silver. Then she coughed. ‘You
really tell lies very badly, Mr Moray.’</p>

<p>‘Do I?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, very badly indeed. It would have been better if
you had been frank with me—much better. You see,
you have told me what I wanted to know. I was not
quite sure about Miss Langton.’</p>

<p>Charles pushed back his chair.</p>

<p>‘I think we won’t discuss Miss Langton.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver sighed.</p>

<p>‘That is foolish of you. You see, I know now that
you saw her with Grey Mask, because if you had not
done so, you would certainly have denied my suggestion
that she came to the house to meet you.’</p>

<p>‘Miss Silver!’</p>

<p>Miss Silver shook her head mournfully.</p>

<p>‘You would have been very angry indeed if you had
not thought I was offering you a way of escape. You
know that.’</p>

<p>‘Miss Silver!’</p>

<p>‘Mr Moray, have you ever asked Miss Langton for
an explanation of what you saw?’</p>

<p>Charles was silent. He felt a sort of horrified fear of
this gentle nondescript person.</p>

<p>‘Mr Moray, I am most earnestly anxious to help
you. <span class='it'>Have</span> you asked Miss Langton for an explanation?’</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Charles, ‘I have.’</p>

<p>‘Did she give you one?’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘None at all?’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘Will you now tell me where you saw Miss Langton,
and in what circumstances?’</p>

<p>‘She came into the room, walked up to the table,
and put down a package. She said something, and Grey
Mask said something. I couldn’t hear what they said.
She only stayed a moment. I didn’t see her face.’</p>

<p>‘But you were in no doubt as to her identity?’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>‘I see,’ said Miss Silver. ‘Just one more question. Was
she announced in any way?’</p>

<p>Charles did not answer. He heard Jaffray’s voice, a
little husky, pitched in a Cockney whisper: ‘Number
Twenty-six is ’ere, guvnor.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver asked another question:</p>

<p>‘The men had numbers. Was Miss Langton designated
by a number?’</p>

<p>Charles was silent.</p>

<p>Miss Silver was silent for a moment too. Then she
said very gently.</p>

<p>‘I see that she was, Mr Moray. It must have been a
great shock to you. I think it is probable that these
people have been blackmailing her. I have come across
indications of this sort of thing before. The man you call
Grey Mask works by means of blackmail—only
instead of money he demands service. That is his
method. You see, it gives him a hold over his tools—they
are bound to obey.’</p>

<p>Charles lifted his head.</p>

<p>‘In Miss Langton’s case there could be no question
of blackmail. There could be nothing—’</p>

<p>‘There is often something that no one dreams of.
Think, Mr Moray! Go back four years. She broke her
engagement a week before her wedding day. Does a
girl do that for nothing? Did she ever tell you why she
did it?’</p>

<p>Charles Moray turned abruptly and walked out of
the room. The door shut behind him. The outer door
shut behind him.</p>

<p>Miss Silver put away the brown exercise-book and
took up her knitting.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXV</h1></div>

<p>Having posted a letter to Stephanie on Monday, Greta
wrote another on Tuesday:</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p>My dear, I keep on meeting young men. It’s really
too thrilling. I must tell you about it. Oh, Stephanie,
it is such fun not being at school, and having men
simply glaring because you’ve just been polite to
someone else. I think Charles must have a most awful
temper really, because he glared in the <span class='it'>most</span> frightful
way you ever saw. I’ve never seen anyone glare
like it before, except on the films when they’re just
going to murder somebody, or the girl has been
carried away by Bad Pete or someone like that. Of
course Sheikhs glare nearly the whole time. I think
Charles is awfully like a Sheikh really. He would
look frightfully handsome in that sort of long night-gown
thing they wear and the thrilling thing over
their heads that looks like a sheet tied round and
round with a twisty, knotty kind of rope. It would
suit Charles like anything—only of course Archie <span class='it'>is</span>
taller. But he wouldn’t make nearly such a good
Sheikh, because he’s got rather a funny sort of face
and he laughs a lot—and of course Sheikhs don’t.
Charles was a Sheikh about Ambrose Kimberley. I’d
only <span class='it'>just</span> finished my letter to you yesterday, and
was putting on my hat to go out and post it, when the
bell rang. And when I opened the door, there was a
most <span class='it'>awfully</span> good-looking man standing there. And
he asked if Margaret was in, and I said she wasn’t
ever in till half-past six, and sometimes later. And he
said wasn’t that frightfully dull for me? And I said,
yes, it <span class='it'>was</span>. He was frightfully nice. I think he is a little
bit taller than Archie really, and he had the most
lovely dark eyes and chestnut hair, and if he had
been a girl, he would have had a lovely complexion.
And he said might he go and post my letter with me,
so we did. And then he said it was such a fine day,
wouldn’t I come for a walk? So we walked as far as
Kensington High Street, and we looked at the shops.
All the skirts are <span class='it'>quite full</span>. Ambrose Kimberley was
frightfully nice. He said he didn’t often meet a girl
like me. And when I said why didn’t he, he said
‘Because there aren’t any more.’ He said a lot of other
things too. It is frightfully nice to have people saying
things like that and being most awfully admiring and
respectful. He said, wouldn’t I have lunch and go to
the pictures with him? But I couldn’t, because
Charles was coming to take me out. He wasn’t at all
pleased about Charles, but I stood <span class='it'>firm</span>. I had one
fright whilst I was out. I thought I saw Pullen across
the road. He’s Papa’s butler, you know, and I don’t
want anyone to know where I am, and if it was
Pullen, he’d tell Egbert—and I most particularly
don’t want Egbert to know. I do hope it wasn’t
Pullen.</p>

<p>When I got back to the flat, Charles was there in a
most awful temper. He had seen Ambrose say goodbye
to me at the corner, and he was ramping and
tramping up and down like a tiger. His eyebrows
were all twisty, and he sort of barked at me and said,
‘<span class='it'>Who was that?</span>’ And I wouldn’t tell him at first, not
till we got up to the flat, and then he put on a most
frightfully severe sort of voice, and lectured me like
anything, and reminded me about Mr Percy Smith,
which was <span class='it'>mean</span>—only you don’t know about <span class='it'>him</span>,
and it’s too long to tell—besides I don’t want
to—and I promised Margaret. Charles really made
me cry, and then he was sorry and said I mustn’t.
Madame’s scoldings were pretty fierce, but Charles
was worse, only he said he was sorry afterwards, and
of course Madam never did that. And he took me
out to lunch, and we went to Hindhead in his car and
had tea in Guildford, and didn’t get back till after
Margaret did. I don’t think Margaret likes Charles
to like me so much. She doesn’t say anything. I think
she doesn’t like Charles very much really, though
she’s known him for simply ages. We’re dining with
Mr Pelham tomorrow. It’s frightfully difficult to
call him Freddy. We’re dining at his house, and
we’re going on to the theatre—instead of Saturday.
Mr Pelham came round last night and fixed it up.
Charles is coming too. I don’t know about Archie.</p>

</div>

<div><h1>Chapter XXVI</h1></div>

<p>Margaret came home a little earlier than usual.
Business had been slack and she had got away punctually—a
thing which did not very often happen. Greta
came in full of conversation, full of Ambrose Kimberley,
full of Charles and their run to Hindhead.</p>

<p>‘Where is Charles?’ asked Margaret.</p>

<p>‘He wouldn’t come in. But he’s coming tomorrow,
and he’s going to teach me to drive his car. He did
teach me a little bit today, only every time I met something
I was so frightened I just threw the wheel at him,
and he says his nerves won’t stand the strain for more
than about a quarter of an hour at a time. I said I didn’t
mind going on a bit, and he said it was frightfully brave
of me.’</p>

<p>Greta was looking alarmingly pretty. She glowed
and shone in the little room. She made Margaret feel
dingy and drab and old, with that dreadful sense of age
which is only possible when one is under five-and-twenty.
Everything had gone by her—home, friends,
leisure, looks. She did not say to herself that she had
lost Charles Moray; but perhaps this one loss included
all the others.</p>

<p>She cleared away supper, made up the fire, and sat
down with idle hands. Greta prattled on about Archie,
about Charles, about whether Archie was better looking
than Charles, or Charles better looking than Archie,
or whether Ambrose Kimberley wasn’t better looking
than either of them, and did Margaret like blue eyes or
grey ones best, or did she prefer brown?</p>

<p>‘Yours are brown, so you ought to marry someone
with blue eyes, oughtn’t you?’—Greta’s voice was
earnest—‘or grey ones. Archie has blue eyes—hasn’t
he? Of course they show a lot because of his not having
very bushy eyelashes. Now Charles—what colour
would you say Charles’s eyes were?’</p>

<p>‘Grey.’</p>

<p>‘I thought they were. I said so in my letter to
Stephanie, but afterwards I thought perhaps they
weren’t. His eyelashes being so black makes it sort of
confusing. You’re sure they’re grey?’</p>

<p>Margaret looked into the fire.</p>

<p>‘Quite sure.’</p>

<p>She saw Charles’s eyes looking into hers, looking
smilingly, teasingly, earnestly; looking love—all
gone—all past—all dead—never to come again.</p>

<p>Greta went on in her soft childish voice.</p>

<p>‘I do like dark eyes—in a man. Don’t you? No, you
wouldn’t, because yours are dark. Margaret, have you
ever been engaged?’</p>

<p>Margaret got up.</p>

<p>‘What a lot of questions!’</p>

<p>‘It must be such fun,’ said Greta. ‘I should like to
be engaged a lot of times before I got married, because
you can’t ever go back and get engaged again—can
you?’</p>

<p>Margaret’s eyes stung.</p>

<p>‘No, you can’t go back.’</p>

<p>‘So you might just as well be engaged to plenty of
people while you can. Do you think Charles would be
nice to be engaged to?’</p>

<p>‘Quite,’ said Margaret. She was standing with her
back to Greta arranging the music in a little stand.</p>

<p>‘That’s what I thought. I don’t think I should mind
being engaged to Charles. You see, he’s got a car, and
he could teach me to drive, and I think that’s rather
important—isn’t it?’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Essential</span>,’ said Margaret, in an odd dry voice.</p>

<p>‘Of course I think he’d be simply terrifying to be
married to. Don’t you?’</p>

<p>Margaret lifted the parcel which she had brought
from her old home on the night she first met Margot
Standing. She held it stiffly at arms’ length. She spoke a
little stiffly too:</p>

<p>‘Has he asked you to marry him?’</p>

<p>Greta giggled.</p>

<p>‘Oh, not yet. Archie hasn’t either. I want to have
lots of fun first. Florence, one of the girls at school,
says her sister has been engaged fifteen times. She’s a
simply <span class='it'>frightfully</span> pretty girl called Rose Lefevre, and
she says Rose always says it’s a great mistake to let
them rush you, because really the most amusing time is
just before. Rose says they get uppish almost at once
after you’ve said “Yes”. And she says if they’re like that
when they’re engaged, what will they be like when
you’re married to them? That’s why she doesn’t ever
stay engaged very long. She says about three weeks is
enough really. But Florence says once it was only three
days—only then there <span class='it'>was</span> a row, and her father said
he wouldn’t have it and Rose was a scandal. But she’s
been engaged a lot more times since. Which do you
think would be the most fun to be engaged to—Archie,
or Charles?’</p>

<p>Margaret came over to the table. She put her parcel
down on it and began to remove the paper wrapping.</p>

<p>‘I shouldn’t get engaged to either until you’re quite
sure.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, but I <span class='it'>want</span> to be engaged! I want to have a ring
and write and tell all the girls. I don’t want to wait. You
see I could easily be not engaged if I didn’t like it—couldn’t
I? You didn’t say if you were ever engaged. I
expect you must have been. What sort of ring did you
have? I just can’t make up my mind about the ring.
Sometimes I think a sapphire, and sometimes I think all
diamonds. I don’t think fair girls ought to wear rubies.
Do you?’</p>

<p>Margaret folded up the paper which she had taken
off the parcel. It crackled a good deal. She put it away
in the bottom drawer of an old walnut bureau before
she spoke. Then she said,</p>

<p>‘Wait till you’ve quite made up your mind.’</p>

<p>‘Oh!’ said Greta; it was a quick, sudden exclamation.
She jumped up, ran to the table, and caught with
both hands at the desk which Margaret had just
unpacked.</p>

<p>‘Margaret! Where did you get it from?’</p>

<p>Margaret turned in astonishment. Greta was flushed
and excited.</p>

<p>‘Margaret, where did you get it?’</p>

<p>‘It’s mine—it was my mother’s.’</p>

<p>‘Oh!’ said Greta. She looked down at the desk.
‘It’s—it’s—do you know I thought it was mine—I did
really. And it gave me a most frightful start, because I
couldn’t think <span class='it'>how</span> you’d got it.’</p>

<p>Margaret came up to the table. The desk stood
between her and Greta. It was covered in green
morocco with a little diagonal pattern stamped on it;
the corners were worn shabby; there was a brass handle
over a sunk brass plate; and between the plate and the
front of the desk were the initials E.M.B. in faded gold.</p>

<p>Greta touched the leather.</p>

<p>‘I thought it was mine! It’s—it’s exactly like mine.’</p>

<p>‘All these old desks are alike.’</p>

<p>‘They don’t all have the same initials on them.
Mine—no, how silly of me!—mine has M.E.B. on it—not
E.M.B.—but it’s awfully, awfully like this one.’
She slid her finger to and fro over the initials. ‘Is
this your mother? What was her name?’</p>

<p>‘Mary Esther Brandon.’</p>

<p>Greta gave a little shriek.</p>

<p>‘Esther Brandon? Margaret—not <span class='it'>really</span>! Oh,
Margaret, how <span class='it'>thrilling</span>! Weren’t you frightfully,
frightfully surprised when you asked me what my name
was, and I said it was Esther Brandon? Margaret—is
<span class='it'>that</span> why you brought me home? Oh, Margaret do you
think we’re relations?’</p>

<p>Margaret had a most curious sense of shock. Greta,
with both hands on the desk, leaning towards her, talking
nineteen to the dozen—asking if they were relations.
She felt afraid. She said quickly,</p>

<p>‘You told me you called yourself Esther Brandon
because you found a bit of a torn letter with my
mother’s signature. It may have been written to your
father or mother.’</p>

<p>‘It was signed Esther Brandon.’</p>

<p>‘That was my mother’s name before she married my
father.’</p>

<p>‘You said Mary Esther.’</p>

<p>‘She never used the Mary.’</p>

<p>‘But it was her initial—she was M.E.B.?’</p>

<p>‘Yes, of course.’</p>

<p>‘But that’s what there was on my desk—there was
M.E.B. in gold. This is E.M.B.’ she prodded the E with
a little vicious dig. ‘This is E, Margaret—E.M.B. It’s
mine that’s M.E.B.—not yours.’</p>

<p>Margaret gave herself a mental shake. It was like a
ridiculous argument in a dream. It meant nothing; it
could not possibly mean anything. She laughed a little.</p>

<p>‘I don’t really know which of her names came first;
but these are her initials, and this is her desk.’</p>

<p>‘What’s in it?’ said Greta.</p>

<p>‘It’s empty. I’m going to put it away.’</p>

<p>‘Margaret, do open it! I want to see if it’s like mine
inside. Mine opened like this.’</p>

<p>She slid the lock to one side, and the lid came up as
she pulled at it.</p>

<p>Margaret came round the table.</p>

<p>‘There’s really nothing in it, Greta—just a pencil or
two.’</p>

<p>The pencils were plain cedar pencils. Only one had
been cut. Margaret lifted out the tray.</p>

<p>‘You see, there’s nothing more.’</p>

<p>Greta bent closer.</p>

<p>‘Mine had a little drawer down here—a little thin
drawer, in under the place where the ink goes. That’s
where my letter was—the bit with Esther Brandon on
it, you know. I shouldn’t have found my little drawer,
only I dropped the desk carrying it down, and a bit of
the wood broke, and I saw there was a drawer. And I
hooked it out with a hairpin, and there was a tiny little
scrap of scrooged up paper wedged in under it. It came
out when I got the drawer out. Margaret yours <span class='it'>has</span> got
a drawer there too—I can feel it wobble! Ooh! It’s
coming out! Margaret, there’s something in it!’</p>

<p>Margaret pushed her aside. The little drawer had
started from its place. There was a folded paper in it.
She pulled the drawer right out.</p>

<p>The paper was a long envelope, doubled to fit the
drawer. The minute her fingers touched it, the fear
came back. She stood looking at the wrong side of the
envelope, dreading to turn it round.</p>

<p>‘What is it?’ said Greta. ‘Margaret, do look—do
look quickly!’</p>

<p>Margaret Langton turned the envelope. It was of
thick yellowish paper. It had a long crease down the
middle, and three creases running across it. At one end
there was an endorsement in a bold, clear hand:</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p>‘Our declaration of marriage.</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>E.S.’</p>

</div>

<p>‘Oh!’ said Greta. She pinched Margaret violently. ‘Oh,—Margaret!
How thrilling!’</p>

<p>Margaret frowned at the bold, clear writing. It was
utterly strange to her. Who was E.S.? Esther Brandon
had become Esther Langton, and then Esther Pelham.
Who was E.S.? It wasn’t her mother’s writing at all.
She hardly felt Greta’s clutch on her arm.</p>

<p>‘Margaret—Margaret! It’s my father’s writing!’</p>

<p>She said ‘Nonsense!’ in a deep, loud voice that filled
the little room and made an echo there.</p>

<p>Greta let go of Margaret’s arm and snatched the
envelope.</p>

<p>‘It is! It is! It’s poor Papa’s very own writing. It is
really! And it’s his initials too—E. S. for Edward
Standing.’</p>

<p>Margaret put a rigid, steady hand on the paper.</p>

<p>‘Give it back to me, please.’</p>

<p>‘It says “Our declaration of marriage”. Margaret, it’s
my father’s writing! Open it—open it quickly! Don’t
you see how frightfully important it is? It’s what Mr
Hale was looking for. It really is Papa’s writing. Do—<span class='it'>do</span>
open it!’</p>

<p>‘Hush,’ said Margaret.</p>

<p>Greta flung her arms about her; and it was only
when those warm arms touched her that Margaret
knew how cold she was. She was very cold, and very
much afraid.</p>

<p>Greta hugged her.</p>

<p>‘Oh Margaret <span class='it'>darling</span>, it was in your mother’s desk!
Oh, Margaret, wouldn’t it be <span class='it'>thrilling</span> if we were
sisters?’</p>

<p>Margaret pushed her away with violence.</p>

<p>‘You little fool! Hold your tongue!’</p>

<p>Greta stared, most innocently aggrieved.</p>

<p>‘Why, I’d love to be your sister. Do—<span class='it'>do</span> open it!’</p>

<p>Margaret lifted the flap of the envelope. It had been
stuck down, but only very lightly; the flap came up
without tearing.</p>

<p>The envelope was empty.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXVII</h1></div>

<p>‘Margaret, why do you look like that?’</p>

<p>‘There’s nothing in it—the envelope’s empty.’</p>

<p>‘Are you <span class='it'>sure</span>?’</p>

<p>‘Look for yourself.’</p>

<p>Greta held the envelope up to the light, turned it
over, shook it. There was nothing inside.</p>

<p>‘What a funny thing! It <span class='it'>is</span> Papa’s writing, you know—and
his initials, and—look here! Something’s been
rubbed out! Look—under the E.S.! Can’t you see the
paper’s all rubbed?’</p>

<p>She pressed against Margaret, pushing the envelope
into her hand, pointing with a plump pink finger.
Under the initials E. S. the paper was roughened as if it
had been scraped—very carefully and lightly scraped.</p>

<p>Margaret held it close under the light. Something
had certainly been erased—initials? As she turned the
paper, a faint marking just showed here and there. Two
letters had been written and then erased. Of the first
initial she could make nothing. The second—no, there
was nothing, to be made of that either. No one could
make anything of those faint marks. Why should she
think that the second letter was a B?</p>

<p>She went over to the walnut bureau and unlocked
one of the drawers. And then, as she stood there with
her back to Greta, she had a moment of sudden, vivid
memory. The endorsement on the envelope caught her
eye, and instantly that flash of memory followed. She
was a child of five or six pushing open the door of a
room. The open door showed the sun streaming in
from a long window. The light fell across her mother’s
white dress. The picture was quite extraordinarily
clear—Esther Langton in a white muslin dress that
swept the ground and was edged with little gathered
frills; she had a black velvet ribbon at her waist, and a
bunch of clove carnations where the muslin fichu
crossed her breast; she was bare-headed; the sun shone
on her black hair. There was another woman in the
room, little and plump in a lilac dress. They did not see
Margaret. She pushed the door, and she heard her
mother say, ‘It was marriage by declaration’. She did
not know what the word meant, but she liked the sound
of it. She said it to herself like a song, accenting it very
much: ‘Declaration—declaration.’ The child’s pleasure
in the rhythm came back sharply. Then her mother
said, ‘Lesbia—the child!’ and they saw her.</p>

<p>There was no more of the picture than that. It did
not come back to her in words, but as a single momentary
impression. It came, and went again even as she
put the envelope into the drawer and locked it away.</p>

<p>The bell rang, and she turned to find Greta’s
attention distracted.</p>

<p>‘I expect it’s Archie. He said he’d come round. I was
just thinking he wasn’t coming, and wishing he would—only
I shan’t tell him that.’</p>

<p>Margaret went to the door. On an impulse she shut
the sitting-room door behind her and took half a step
on to the landing to meet Archie Millar.</p>

<p>‘Archie, you have read all sorts of books. I’m being
teased by something I don’t know the meaning of—you
know how bothering it is. I heard it somewhere, and I
want to know what it means.’</p>

<p>Archie stared.</p>

<p>‘Why this sudden thirst for knowledge? And why
out here in the cold? Isn’t it fit for the child’s young
ears?’</p>

<p>‘Don’t be silly!’ Margaret managed to laugh. ‘It just
came into my head.’</p>

<p>What is it?’</p>

<p>‘Declaration. What’s marriage by declaration?’</p>

<p>‘Scotch marriage by declaration. The old Gretna
Green business—only nowadays you have to have a
Scotch domicile. Beautifully simple arrangement—no
parsons—no relations—no fuss.’</p>

<p>‘What does it <span class='it'>mean</span>?’</p>

<p>‘Are you thinking of doin’ it? You can’t in this
benighted country. Most inferior place, England.’</p>

<p>‘I’m Scotch too, every bit as much as you are. My
mother—’ Margaret’s voice failed suddenly. She
forced it and asked another question: ‘Is it legal?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, perfectly. Not exactly smiled on, you know, but
perfectly legal.’</p>

<p>The sitting-room door opened. Greta appeared.</p>

<p>‘What <span class='it'>are</span> you doing?’</p>

<p>‘Discussin’ the Scotch marriage laws,’ said Archie.
‘I’m all Scotch, and Margaret’s half-Scotch; and when
Scot meets Scot, it’s about ninety-nine to one that
they’re talkin’ about law or theology. We were combinin’
them.’</p>

<p>Greta giggled and then pouted.</p>

<p>‘I don’t know any theology. Must you talk it to me?’</p>

<p>‘You’re not Scotch.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, but I <span class='it'>am</span>—at least poor Papa was. Margaret,
aren’t you frozen? Can’t we shut these doors?’</p>

<p>As they went into the sitting-room, Margaret said in
a startled voice;</p>

<p>‘Was your father Scotch? I thought you said you
didn’t know where he came from.’</p>

<p>‘I know he lived in Scotland when he was a boy,
because once when I said how cold it was, he said, “Ah!
You ought to have been brought up in Scotland like I
was.” And I said, “Oh, were you?” and he wouldn’t say
any more. But I’d rather not be Scotch if I’ve got to
know about frightful things like laws.’</p>

<p>‘We’ll talk about anythin’ you like,’ said Archie.</p>

<p>‘I’d like to talk about cars. Have you got a car? And
will you take me out in it? Charles took me out today,
and I can very nearly drive.’</p>

<p>Archie cocked his eyebrows up and sang through his
nose:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>‘Don’t you ever take your sweetie in an auto!</p>
<p class='line'>Don’t you ever take your girlie in a car!</p>
<p class='line'>&ensp;&ensp;When she gently murmurs Charlie,</p>
<p class='line'>&ensp;&ensp;You tread on the gas, and then—finale!</p>
<p class='line'>So don’t you take your sweetie in a car!’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>Greta uttered a shriek of delight.</p>

<p>‘What a lovely one! Do you know any more? Have
you got a ukelele? Can you play it? Will you teach me?
Oh, <span class='it'>do</span> say you will! I want to have one most <span class='it'>frightfully</span>,
and Mrs Beauchamp said they weren’t ladylike, and
Madame wouldn’t let anyone have one at school,
though we simply <span class='it'>pined</span>.’</p>

<p>Margaret lost Archie’s answer. She put the old desk
away in a corner and then sat down at the bureau and
began to sort and tidy the pile of miscellaneous papers.
Her thoughts frightened her. The picture of her mother
standing in the sunlight kept coming back. It was
astonishingly clear and distinct, astonishingly full of
light and colour. Esther Langton’s black hair and
brilliant bloom; the white dress; the red carnations; and
the sunshine. The little lady in the lilac dress whose
name was Lesbia. Her mother’s voice saying, ‘It was
marriage by declaration’.</p>

<p>She tore up a couple of letters and dropped them in
the wastepaper basket. Words and sentences kept forming
in her mind—Our declaration of marriage. E. S.—It’s
poor Papa’s writing—it really is—and his initials—He
was brought up in Scotland!—I thought you didn’t
know where he was brought up—Of course you have to
have a Scotch domicile—I am half Scotch because of
the Brandons—My mother had a Scotch domicile—Our
declaration of marriage. E. S.—It was marriage by
declaration.</p>

<p>Margaret’s hand shook so much that the letter she
was holding dropped from it. Why should she have
thoughts like these? What had come over her? She
tried to stop the thoughts, to fix her attention on the
letters that had to be sorted. She tried to listen to
Greta’s chatter.</p>

<p>Greta and Archie were sitting very close together,
Greta gazing earnestly into his face.</p>

<p>‘Charles has a moustache,’ she said. ‘Why haven’t
you got a moustache?’</p>

<p>‘Poor old Charles looks better when a good bit of his
face is covered up.’</p>

<p>‘He <span class='it'>doesn’t</span>!’</p>

<p>‘How do you know? I know, because we played
together in infancy, I knew the lad when he had a chin
not yet enriched by one appearing hair—misquotation
from Shakespeare.’</p>

<p>Greta giggled.</p>

<p>‘What a frightful lot of Shakespeare you know! I
don’t know any except “Friends, Romans, Countrymen”;
and I always get that wrong after the first three
lines. I do think Shakespeare’s silly. Don’t you?’</p>

<p>‘Poor old William!’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Frightfully</span> silly,’ said Greta.</p>

<p>The words reached Margaret; but it was just as if
Greta and Archie were a long way off—people in a
play, talking about things which hadn’t anything to do
with her. She thought strangely, passionately of her
mother. It came over her how little she knew of her
early life. What she remembered was Esther Pelham;
and Esther Pelham never spoke of the time when she
was Esther Langton or Esther Brandon. There seemed
nothing strange about it. If Esther Pelham had never
looked back into the past, it was because she was so
abundantly satisfied with the present, a life full of
enthusiasms, always offering fresh zest, colour, interest,
new worlds, to enjoy and conquer. Why should any
woman, with all this before her turn a remembering
glance backwards? The one inexplicable thing in
Esther Pelham’s life was poor little Freddy. That he
should be the most devoted of her adorers was quite
natural. But that she should have chosen him as a
husband—he adored, and for seventeen years she had
contentedly accepted his adoration. Margaret could
never remember a break in this strangely happy
relationship.</p>

<p>Presently, when Freddy came in, she looked at him
with puzzled eyes. One got fond of Freddy. But there
was nothing romantic about him; and Esther Pelham
had breathed and diffused romance.</p>

<p>Freddy was cheerful and affectionate.</p>

<p>‘Well, well, it’s very nice to see you—and Miss
Greta. No, no—I must remember my privileges. It’s
Greta, isn’t it? And you’re remembering to call me
Freddy, I hope. What? Nonsense! You must, or I shall
think I’m getting old—and that won’t do—will it?
Now, there’s Morley Milton—Margaret, you remember
Morley Milton—five years older than me and getting
fat. Well, no one can say I’m getting fat. Well, old
Morley’s just gone and got engaged to an heiress—done
uncommon well for himself too, I heard—a
Miss Gray—or is it May, or Way? I’ve got a shocking
head for names. Why, only yesterday I met Jack
Crosbie, and said to him “How’s Polly?” and I give you
my word he looked glum. And then I remembered
Polly jilted him, and I took a plunge and said “No—of
course—of course—I mean Sylvia—how’s dear little
Sylvia?” And he looked—oh, dreadfully annoyed, and
walked away, and the next man I met told me he and
Sylvia don’t speak. But there, I hope he won’t bear
malice, for I wouldn’t hurt anyone’s feelings for the
world—now would I?’</p>

<p>Freddy flowed happily on. He paid Greta flowery
compliments, and told endless pointless stories about
people whom the others had never heard of, and in
whom no one could possibly have taken any interest.
Margaret had not seen him so like himself since her
mother’s death. When he got up to go, she drew him on
one side and asked the question which she had been
waiting to ask.</p>

<p>‘Freddy, did Mother ever have a friend called
Lesbia?’</p>

<p>Freddy wrinkled his brow.</p>

<p>‘She’d such a lot of friends. I don’t think I ever
knew anyone who had so many friends as Esther did.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, she had. But I remember someone called Lesbia
when I was a little girl.’</p>

<p>‘What about her?’</p>

<p>‘Nothing. I just wondered who she was.’</p>

<p>‘Lesbia?’ said Freddy. ‘Lesbia? You’re sure it was
Lesbia, and not Sylvia?’</p>

<p>‘Quite sure.’</p>

<p>‘Because there was Sylvia Flowerdew who married
Nigel Adair. No—no, that’s wrong, because Nigel
married Kitty Lennox, so it must have been Ian who
married Sylvia. Only I seem to remember Ian being
married to a dark girl with a bit of a cast in her eye—and
of course some people admire it, but I don’t myself,
and Sylvia—’</p>

<p>‘It wasn’t Sylvia—it was Lesbia.’</p>

<p>Freddy brightened.</p>

<p>‘It wasn’t Lesbia Boyne?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know. Who was Lesbia Boyne?’</p>

<p>‘She was Esther’s great friend about the time we
married. But I think she went out to America—yes, I
think so.’</p>

<p>‘I never heard of her.’</p>

<p>‘She used to write—yes, yes, it all comes back—she
used to write. And then she stopped writing—these
things drop off, you know. Now there was Janet Gordon
about the same time, always writing to Esther. No,
not Janet—Joan—Jean—Jane—hanged if I can
remember the girl’s name! But I’ll swear it began with a
J. No—Elspeth—that’s it—Elspeth Gordon! Or was it
Campbell? Bless my soul. I can’t be sure. But she used
to write a dozen times a week, and now I can’t even
remember her name.’</p>

<p>Archie was saying goodnight to Greta. He whispered
something, and Greta blushed and dimpled. Freddy
turned on them, shaking a finger.</p>

<p>‘Don’t you believe a word he says, I don’t know
what he’s saying, but don’t you believe it. Young men
are all alike. Don’t forget you’re all dining with me
tomorrow.’</p>

<p>Archie was quite unabashed.</p>

<p>‘Am I dinin’ too?’</p>

<p>‘Didn’t I ask you? D’you want to come? The more,
the merrier—what? Half-past seven, and don’t be late.
Goodnight, everybody. Goodnight, Greta.’ He pressed
Greta’s hand and held it for a moment. ‘Aren’t you
going to say “Goodnight, Freddy”?’</p>

<p>Greta giggled, caught Archie’s look of disfavour, and
gave Freddy a beaming smile.</p>

<p>‘Goodnight, Freddy,’ she said.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXVIII</h1></div>

<p>‘I’ve never been to a dinner-party before,’ said Greta.
‘I’m frightfully excited. I was afraid we were going to
be late, because Margaret was kept hours over time at
her horrid shop. She had simply to whisk into her dress
in about three minutes. I’d been quite ready for half an
hour before she ever came in.’</p>

<p>Freddy Pelham beamed on his arriving guests.</p>

<p>‘Your first dinner party? And my last in this house.’</p>

<p>‘Your last?’</p>

<p>‘Didn’t Margaret tell you I was going?’</p>

<p>It was Charles who said, ‘Yes, she told me, but I
didn’t know you were off so soon.’</p>

<p>Freddy looked pathetic.</p>

<p>‘What’s the good of my staying on? I can’t bear it,
and that’s the fact.’</p>

<p>‘You’re not selling the house?’</p>

<p>‘No, I’m taking a leaf out of your book. I shall just
lock it up and leave it standing, and then if I want to
come back, I can. This is a little farewell party, just to
keep me company my last night.’</p>

<p>Even Margaret looked surprised.</p>

<p>‘I thought you weren’t going till the end of the
month.’</p>

<p>‘I’m moving over to my club tomorrow—letting
the servants go and all that. And I may pop off any day
without saying goodbye. Hateful things goodbyes. I
shan’t say any—I shall just pop off, and the next you
know you’ll be getting picture postcards of Constantinople
or Hong Kong—what? And now let’s enjoy
ourselves.’</p>

<p>He turned to Greta.</p>

<p>‘Your first dinner party? Now just think of that! I
didn’t know I was to be so much honoured. And
Margaret was late? That’s too bad! Well, I haven’t got
to introduce anyone to you—have I? That’s splendid!
And am I allowed to pay you a compliment on the very
charming frock you have on?’</p>

<p>Greta giggled.</p>

<p>‘It’s Margaret’s. I haven’t got any of my own things,
you know.’</p>

<p>‘Haven’t you? Haven’t you really? That’s too bad!’</p>

<p>Margaret slipped her hand inside Greta’s arm and
pinched it.</p>

<p>‘Come and look at this bit of jade. Isn’t it pretty? I
used to love it when I was a little girl. Look—you can
see the light through the grapes if you hold it in front of
the lamp.’</p>

<p>Greta’s attention was diverted. As she went in to
dinner on Freddy’s arm, she appeared to be occupied
with the momentous question of whether green, ‘bright
green like that funny bunch of grapes’, would really
suit her. Did Freddy think it would? ‘Only I ought
really to be in mourning for poor Papa.’</p>

<p>Margaret saw Charles’s eyebrows go up. He made a
valiant attempt to distract Greta from what was due to
‘poor Papa’.</p>

<p>‘You should always wear white. I’m all for the good
old-fashioned heroine in white muslin and a blue sash.
You know where you are then. If she’s got on white
muslin and a blue sash, she’s the heroine, and you’re
not kept all worked up wondering whether she’s the
vamp in disguise.’</p>

<p>‘Very nice,’ said Freddy—‘very nice indeed. I
always did like to see a pretty girl in a white frock. Now
your mother—‘he turned to Margaret—‘your mother
was wonderful in white. I remember her telling me she
wanted to wear a coloured dress when she had her
miniature painted, and the lady who did it wouldn’t
hear of it. Bless my soul, I can’t remember her name!
It wasn’t Tod—no, it wasn’t Tod. And it wasn’t
Mackintosh. Now that’s really very stupid of me, for
your mother used to talk about her quite a lot and say
what a pity it was she married that cousin of hers
and went out to British Columbia with him and
never touched a brush again. Nina—yes, it was Nina—No,
it wasn’t McLean. Dear me, it’s very stupid of me!
She painted uncommonly well, and exhibited every
year at the Scottish Academy. But I can’t remember her
name.’</p>

<p>‘Wouldn’t it be on the miniature?’ suggested Archie.</p>

<p>‘Yes, yes, of course. We’ll have to look at it afterwards.
Now you must all have some of this entree,
because it’s uncommonly good. Margaret, you’re not
eating anything. My dear, I must really insist. By the
way, that old desk of your mother’s—dear me now,
I’ve forgotten what I was going to say about it, but
there <span class='it'>was</span> something I was going to say. Now what was
it?’</p>

<p>‘When did Mother have it?’ said Margaret.</p>

<p>‘I don’t know. It’s an old thing—not worth your
taking away, my dear.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, but it <span class='it'>was</span>,’ said Greta. ‘It was <span class='it'>frightfully</span>
exciting when we found the little drawer.’</p>

<p>‘A drawer?’ Freddy’s voice was vague and puzzled.</p>

<p>‘A little secret drawer just like my own had, underneath
the place for the ink. And Margaret wouldn’t
ever had found it for herself—would you, Margaret?
And I shouldn’t have found it either, only my desk was
just like this one and I dropped it carrying it down from
the attic and a little bit got broken, so I could see there
was a drawer there. And when I saw Margaret’s, I
thought perhaps it would be the same. And it <span class='it'>was</span>.’
Greta’s tone was triumphant.</p>

<p>The white frock, which Margaret had had in the
spring and only worn once, was extravagantly becoming
to Greta. The shaded lights touched up the gold in
her hair. She leaned bare elbows on the dark polished
table and talked with a child’s excitement.</p>

<p>‘Wasn’t it funny Margaret’s desk being the same as
mine? It was frightfully exciting when the little drawer
came out and <span class='it'>there</span> was the envelope about the certificate.’</p>

<p>The table was a round one. Freddy Pelham had
Margaret on one side of him and Greta on the other,
Archie next Margaret, and Charles next Greta. As
Greta said the word certificate, a manly heel came
down hard upon the toe of her satin shoe. She blinked
and said ‘Oh!’ blinked again, and turned indignantly
on Charles.</p>

<p>‘You trod on me!’</p>

<p>Charles smiled a charming smile.</p>

<p>‘My dear child, what do you mean? I never tread on
people.’</p>

<p>‘Then it was Archie. I think the front bit of my foot’s
broken. Archie, why did you tread on me?’</p>

<p>Archie made an indignant denial. Freddy was full of
fussy concern.</p>

<p>‘You’re not really hurt? I do trust you are not really
hurt—and just as you were telling us such an exciting
story too. Did you say, you had a desk like Margaret’s,
and that you actually found something in a secret
drawer?’</p>

<p>‘All scrooged up,’ said Greta, nodding her head. ‘It
was <span class='it'>frightfully</span> exciting. But I don’t think I’d better tell
you about it, because I’ve just remembered I promised
I wouldn’t, so it’s no good your asking me really. And I
expect that’s why Charles trod on me—only he needn’t
have done it so hard—it hurt frightfully.’</p>

<p>She turned reproachful eyes on Charles, who burst
out laughing.</p>

<p>‘Greta, if you don’t stop being an <span class='it'>enfant terrible</span>, I
shall do something worse than tread on you—I shall
take you back to the flat and lock you in.’</p>

<p>‘How horrid of you! Freddy, isn’t he horrid?’</p>

<p>‘He’s a tyrant,’ said Freddy. ‘He’s been travelling
amongst savages, and he’s forgotten how to behave.
Don’t take any notice of him. We were all getting most
excited about your discovery. Don’t take any notice of
Charles. Did you say you found a certificate? What
sort of a certificate?’</p>

<p>Greta shook her head.</p>

<p>‘I did really promise I wouldn’t tell, so I won’t. I
couldn’t when I’d really promised—could I? But I’ll
tell you something I didn’t promise about, something
simply frightfully exciting that only happened this
evening, and that no one knows anything about but
me.’</p>

<p>‘Bless my soul!’ said Freddy.</p>

<p>Charles leaned back in his chair. He looked at
Margaret; but Margaret was looking at Greta with an
air part startled, part weary. The weariness was
uppermost. He thought she looked worn out, as if she
were neither sleeping nor eating. The hastily-put-on
black dress made her seem paler still. Why did she look
like that? Her eyes had no fire left in them; they were
tired—tired and hopeless.</p>

<p>Greta had begun her story. He reflected that one
might just as well try to stop running water.</p>

<p>‘It’s frightfully exciting—it really is. And even
Charles doesn’t know about it, because it happened
<span class='it'>after</span> he brought me home, and <span class='it'>before</span> Margaret came
home.’</p>

<p>‘What happened?’ It was Margaret who asked.</p>

<p>‘Well, Charles brought me home, and—Oh, Freddy,
do you know, I really can drive—can’t I, Charles? I
drove two miles, and Charles never touched the wheel
once.’</p>

<p>‘What happened after you got home?’ This was
Archie.</p>

<p>‘Well, I thought I’d write to Stephanie and tell her I
could drive. So I did. And then I thought I would go
out and post it. So I went out, and there was a big car
standing just opposite, and the chauffeur walking up
and down. And I stopped under the lamp-post just to
see if I had stuck my letter down properly, and then I
went along to the letter-box. And when I got to the
dark bit where the gardens are, I looked back because I
heard something, and I saw the car coming along ever
so slowly—just crawling, you know. And I thought it
was going to stop at one of the houses, and it did! And I
ran on to the pillar-box and put my letter in and started
to come back. And it was still there.’</p>

<p>Greta’s words came faster and faster, and her cheeks
got pinker and pinker. She made Margaret look like a
ghost.</p>

<p>‘Not very exciting so far,’ said Charles drily.</p>

<p>‘It’s going to be. You <span class='it'>wait</span>. When I got up to the car
I did get a fright. The chauffeur spoke to me. He had a
sort of growly voice, and he said, “Get in quick, miss.”
And I said, “It’s not my car.” And he came after me,
and he said I must come quickly because Egbert
wanted me to.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, Lord!’ said Charles to himself.</p>

<p>Freddy said, ‘Egbert?’ in a mild puzzled way.</p>

<p>‘Oh, I oughtn’t to have said that! But you won’t tell
anyone—will you? And Archie won’t. And I really
didn’t mean to say his name,—but it’s so frightfully
difficult to remember all the things I mustn’t say. You’ll
be frightfully nice—won’t you, and forget about my
saying Egbert—won’t you?’</p>

<p>Freddy assured her that he had already forgotten.</p>

<p>‘The fellow spoke to you—dash his impudence! And
then what happened?’</p>

<p>‘He said my cousin wanted me. It’ll be all right if I
say my cousin, won’t it? I needn’t say his name.’</p>

<p>‘What happened?’ asked Archie.</p>

<p>‘I simply ran, and I gave a sort of scream. And he
said, “Don’t make a noise.” And I made a louder scream
and simply ran like anything. And he caught my arm.
Wasn’t it <span class='it'>frightful</span>? Only just then two cars came along
out of that little crescent, and that frightened him, and
he let go, and I never stopped running till I got home.
Wasn’t it a <span class='it'>frightful</span> adventure?’</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXIX</h1></div>

<p>Dinner was over at last. Charles had never endured
forty minutes more crowded with indiscretions. He was
reduced to a condition of exasperated resignation.
After all, neither Freddy nor Archie mattered; but
unless one locked the creature up, she would prattle in
the same artless way to anyone she met. He thought of
uninhabited islands with yearning, and of Margaret
with rage. If it were not for Margaret he would not be
mixed up in this damned affair at all.</p>

<p>The girls went upstairs to put on their coats. Freddy
fussed away to see if the car had come round. Archie
turned a reproachful eye on Charles.</p>

<p>‘Why teach an innocent child to practise concealments?’</p>

<p>Charles had no reply but a frown.</p>

<p>‘Why keep me out of it anyhow? Why pretend?’</p>

<p>‘What are you driving at?’</p>

<p>‘Well, she’s Margot Standing, isn’t she?’</p>

<p>‘You guessed when she said “Egbert”?’</p>

<p>‘I guessed the second time I saw her,’ said Archie.
‘She wants a whole heap of practice before she can
conceal anything. Does Freddy know?’</p>

<p>‘I expect he does by now. Egbert isn’t the sort of
name most fellows would be seen dead in a ditch with.
Look here, Archie, I want to talk to you. What about
after the show? We can take the girls home, and then
you come round to “The Luxe” with me.’</p>

<p>Archie nodded, and Freddy came back into the
room. Upstairs Greta clutched Margaret by the arm.</p>

<p>‘He never showed us the miniature. Margaret, I <span class='it'>do</span>
want to see your mother’s miniature so badly.’</p>

<p>‘Why should you want to see it?’ Her tone said
plainly, ‘It has nothing to do with you.’</p>

<p>‘I want to see it <span class='it'>frightfully</span>. When I saw Esther
Brandon written on that bit of paper, it gave me a most
frightfully excited sort of feeling. I simply <span class='it'>must</span> see her
miniature. Where is it? Can’t you show it to me?’</p>

<p>‘It’s in Freddy’s study,’ said Margaret in a slow, flat
voice.</p>

<p>‘Show it to me quickly! Oh, do put on your coat and
come and show it to me!’</p>

<p>She fairly danced down the stairs, looking back over
her shoulder and urging Margaret to hurry.</p>

<p>The study was one of those built-out rooms half-way
down the stair—a fussy, untidy place full of photographs,
pipes, guns, fishing-rods, stamp-albums, old
bound magazines, and a chaotic muddle of letters and
bills.</p>

<p>‘Freddy’s hopeless,’ said Margaret.</p>

<p>‘Where’s the miniature?’</p>

<p>‘On his writing-table.’ She moved <span class='it'>The Times</span> and
two picture papers as she spoke. Under the papers was
a tall old-fashioned miniature case. It had folding doors
that could be locked. The doors were shut.</p>

<p>‘Oh!’ said Greta. She caught at the table and leaned
on it. ‘Oh, it’s Papa’s! Oh, Margaret, it’s Papa’s!’</p>

<p>Margaret just stood and looked at it.</p>

<p>‘Margaret, it is Papa’s! Oh, do open it!’</p>

<p>‘What are you talking about?’ said Margaret very
slowly.</p>

<p>‘Papa had a case just like this. It stood on his table. I
told Mr Hale about it. I only saw inside it once—just a
peep. Oh, Margaret, do open it—<span class='it'>do</span>!’</p>

<p>Margaret put her hand on the case.</p>

<p>‘It’s locked, Greta.’</p>

<p>‘Get him to open it. Oh, I <span class='it'>do</span> want to see what’s
inside!’</p>

<p>‘I can’t do that.’</p>

<p>‘Papa’s had diamonds all round it. Has this one got
diamonds all round it?’</p>

<p>‘No, it’s quite plain—just a picture of my mother in a
white dress.’</p>

<p>‘My mother had a white dress too. It must have been
my mother. Don’t you think so? There were diamonds
all round. They sparkled like anything.’</p>

<p>‘Greta! Margaret! Hurry up!’ Freddy was fussing in
the hall; his voice sounded querulous.</p>

<p>Greta gave a little shriek of dismay:</p>

<p>‘Oh, we’ll be late! We mustn’t be late! We’re
coming,’ she cried, and ran out of the room.</p>

<p>For a moment Margaret stayed behind. She put both
hands on the case and opened the little doors. The case
opened quite easily. Esther Brandon looked out at her.
She wore a white dress. She smiled serenely. The world
was at her feet.</p>

<p>Margaret shut the case and went slowly out of the
room.</p>

<p>The show was a great success as far as Greta and
Freddy were concerned. There was singing, there was
dancing; there were coloured lights and gorgeous
scenes quite unlike anything except a stage land of
dreams.</p>

<p>Greta was in the seventh heaven. She sat between
Freddy and Archie, and at intervals she murmured,
‘How <span class='it'>frightfully</span> clever! How <span class='it'>frightfully</span> sweet!’ and ‘Oh,
isn’t he <span class='it'>wonderful</span>?’</p>

<p>Archie’s comment, ‘Revoltin’ fellow’, was received
with intense disfavour.</p>

<p>‘He’s lovely! His eyelashes are longer than Charles’s.
I think he’s simply <span class='it'>sweet</span>.’</p>

<p>This was in the interval.</p>

<p>Archie made a face and hummed just under his
breath.</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>‘Oh, you do need</p>
<p class='line'>Someone to watch over you—misquotation from <span class='it'>Oh Kay</span>.’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>‘You’ve got it all wrong. It says,</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>‘ “Oh, I do <span class='it'>need</span></p>
<p class='line'>Someone to watch over <span class='it'>me</span>.” ’</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>‘That’s what I said. Or, in the plain words of everyday
life, you want someone to look after you.’</p>

<p>‘I <span class='it'>don’t</span>! I can look after myself. I’m eighteen, and I
was leaving school at Christmas anyhow. Of course
you’re older than me. But I’m grown up, and that’s
what matters. How old are you, Archie? Are you
frightfully old?’</p>

<p>‘Frightfully. Poor old Charles and I are just hangin’
on.’</p>

<p>‘How old <span class='it'>are</span> you?’</p>

<p>‘Twenty-seven,’ said Archie. ‘But Charles was
twenty-eight a week ago, so I’m one up on him.’</p>

<p>‘It must be simply frightful to be twenty-eight,’ said
Greta with conviction. She snuggled up to Archie and
whispered, ‘Is Margaret awfully old too?’</p>

<p>‘Ssh! She’s twenty-four. Pretty bad—isn’t it?’</p>

<p>Greta considered.</p>

<p>‘I shall be married years and years before I’m
twenty-four. It’s <span class='it'>rather</span> old, but I do love Margaret all
the same.’</p>

<p>When the curtain had fallen for the last time, they
came out into a windy night. It had been raining; the
pavements were wet, and the wind was wet.</p>

<p>Freddy shepherded his party briskly.</p>

<p>‘We’ll just go along to the corner and cross over.
Archie can get us a taxi quite easily there. Much better
than waiting in this crush. Rather nice to get a breath
of air—what? Lucky it’s not raining—isn’t it? Now I
remember once—’ he addressed himself to Greta;
fragments of the anecdote that followed reached
Charles as he walked a yard ahead... ‘and I said I’d
give her a lift because it was so wet ... too bad, wasn’t
it?... me, of all people in the world ... and I think
her name was Gwendolen Jones, but I can’t be sure...’</p>

<p>They crossed to an island in the middle of the road.
Archie made a rapid dash and got to the farther side.
Freddy was fussing over Margaret and Greta.</p>

<p>‘Now, my dear, take my arm. Margaret, perhaps
you’d better take Charles’s arm.’</p>

<p>Charles heard Margaret say, ‘I don’t want anyone’s
arm,’ and at the same moment the people on the island
began to flow across. He saw Margaret and Greta
together, Freddy next Margaret; and then, when he
was half-way over, he heard Greta scream. He turned.
It was a scream of sharp and anguished fear. He
looked, and could see only a crowd and a confusion.
There was a bus standing still.</p>

<p>He pushed through, and saw Greta just not under
the bus. She was lying as she had fallen, her hands
spread out, her fair hair splashed with mud, her face
splashed with mud. Freddy and the bus-conductor
were picking her up, and as Charles arrived she was
beginning to cry. He looked round for Margaret, and
saw her standing straight and still. The light from the
arc-lamp was on her face.</p>

<p>Charles felt his heart turn over. The whole thing had
happened in a moment, and in a moment it was past.
The driver of the bus was saying loudly and dogmatically,
‘She ain’t hurt, I tell you. She ain’t touched
I tell you’; and this was mixed with Greta’s sobs and
Freddy’s ‘Very careless—very careless indeed! The
young lady might have been killed.’</p>

<p>Charles said, ‘What happened?’ and the sound of
his own voice startled him. It seemed to startle Greta
too. She gave a much louder sob and flung both arms
round his neck with a wail of ‘Take me home! Oh,
Charles, please take me home!’</p>

<p>It was at this moment that the policeman arrived.</p>

<p>Freddy was in his element at once.</p>

<p>‘Most unfortunate, constable—the young lady
might have been killed. We were all going across
together, my daughter and this young lady and I, and
she slipped—Didn’t you, my dear? Dear me, we ought
to be very thankful she isn’t hurt. She slipped and fell
right in front of the bus. Now, my dear, you’re quite
safe. No—don’t cry. You’re not hurt, are you?’</p>

<p>‘She wasn’t touched,’ said the driver of the bus in
the same loud aggressive voice.</p>

<p>‘Are you hurt, Miss?’ inquired the policeman.</p>

<p>Charles had removed Greta’s arms from about his
neck, but she still clung to his shoulder. In spite of the
splashes of mud on her face she managed to look pretty
and appealing.</p>

<p>‘I might have been killed,’ she said.</p>

<p>‘Are you hurt, Miss?’</p>

<p>‘I might have been killed,’ said Greta with a sob.
‘Someone pushed me, and I fell right under that
horrible bus.’</p>

<p>‘Any injuries Miss?’</p>

<p>‘No—no,’ said Greta. She gazed down at the drabbled
white skirt which her open coat disclosed. ‘Oh, my
frock’s spoilt!’</p>

<p>It was like a nightmare. When Archie came up with
a taxi, Charles felt as if the whole thing had been going
on for years and would continue to go on for ever. The
interested crowd; the voice of the bus driver; Greta’s
hysterical sobbing; and the policeman writing things
down in a notebook. Just outside all this, Margaret
standing under the arc-light. She had not spoken a
word or moved to come to Greta.</p>

<p>Charles touched her on the arm.</p>

<p>‘Come along—we want to get out of this. Freddy
says he’ll walk, and Archie’s going the other way. I’ll
take you home.’</p>

<p>When he had put the girls into the taxi, Charles
spoke for a moment to Archie Millar:</p>

<p>‘I’ll fix up a talk some other time—tonight won’t
do.’</p>

<p>It was only afterwards he thought it strange that
Archie turned away without so much as a word.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXX</h1></div>

<p>Greta talked the whole way home:</p>

<p>‘Wasn’t it a frightful thing to happen? Didn’t I have
a most frightfully narrow escape?’</p>

<p>‘How did it happen?’ said Charles.</p>

<p>‘Margaret and I were going across, and Freddy was
going with us, and I heard the bus coming and I said,
“Oh!” And Margaret said “Don’t be silly”, and I
started to run. And someone pushed me frightfully
hard, and I fell right under the bus.’</p>

<p>She held Charles tightly by the hand; her fingers
were warm and clinging. She went on talking:</p>

<p>‘I always did hate crossings, but now I shall hate
them more than ever. Charles, it was frightful. Someone
pushed me right under the bus.’</p>

<p>‘You must have slipped,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>He tried to draw his hand away, but she held it tight.</p>

<p>‘No, I didn’t—not till I was pushed. I was just
beginning to run, and someone pushed me hard.’</p>

<p>‘Someone knocked against you in the crowd.’</p>

<p>‘They knocked me right down,’ said Greta indignantly.
‘And I’ve got mud all over my face, and
Margaret’s white dress that she lent me is simply
ruined. Margaret, your white frock is quite spoilt. Isn’t
it a pity? But it’s not my fault—is it?’</p>

<p>She talked so much she did not even notice that
Margaret did not speak at all. It was Charles for whom
this silence came to be one of those unbearable things
which have to be borne.</p>

<p>Greta exclaimed with pleasure when, having paid
the taxi, he came upstairs with them. Her fright was
wearing off; she was now merely excited and pleased at
having Charles to talk to. She was not at all pleased,
however, at being told to go to bed.</p>

<p>‘I don’t want to. I want to sit up and talk—oh, for
hours. Margaret, can’t we make coffee and have supper,
just you and Charles and me? I’m frightfully hungry.’</p>

<p>Margaret was standing over the dead fire. She spoke
now without turning round. Her voice sounded as if
her lips were dry.</p>

<p>‘There isn’t any coffee. You’d better go to bed.’</p>

<p>‘Oh!’ said Greta in a disappointed tone.</p>

<p>Charles put his hand on her shoulder and walked her
to the door.</p>

<p>‘Run along—there’s a good child. Wash your face
and go to bed. I want to talk to Margaret.’</p>

<p>‘Oh!’ said Greta again. She pouted, looked at him
through her eyelashes, and then suddenly showed all
her very pretty teeth in a yawn.</p>

<p>‘Off with you!’ said Charles, and shut the door.</p>

<p>He came back to the hearth, Margaret had not
moved, and for a long heavy minute Charles stood
looking at her in silence. One arm lay on the mantelpiece.
Her head was bent; she was looking down at
the ashes of the fire. Her left hand hung straight at her
side. The third finger would not have held his emerald
now; the hand was thinner, whiter than it had been
four years ago; it looked very white against the black
dress.</p>

<p>Charles stood there. Three things said themselves
over and over in his mind: ‘A street accident would be
the safest way’; ‘Someone pushed me’; and, ‘All the
perfumes of Arabia.’</p>

<p>He looked at Margaret’s hand—Margaret’s white
hand, hanging there as if all the life, all the strength had
gone out of it.</p>

<p>‘Someone pushed me frightfully hard’; ‘A street
accident would be the safest plan’; ‘All the perfumes of
Arabia cannot sweeten—’</p>

<p>Margaret lifted her head.</p>

<p>‘It is late,’ she said.</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>She looked like Margaret carved in stone; there
seemed to be no colour, no feeling, no emotion. She
said, ‘Aren’t you going?’ and Charles shook his head.</p>

<p>‘No—I want to talk to you.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, there was something I was going to say—but
it’s so late.’</p>

<p>‘What were you going to say?’</p>

<p>She had not looked at him at all; she did not look at
him now. He could not see her eyes. She spoke in a dull
voice:</p>

<p>‘When are you going to take her away?’</p>

<p>‘Do you mean Greta?’</p>

<p>‘I mean Margot Standing. When are you going to
take her away? You had better take her away quickly.’</p>

<p>At the first sound of her voice Charles became once
more master of his own thoughts. The obsession of
those three terrible sentences was gone. He said
perhaps the last thing that she expected, and said it in
quiet everyday tones:</p>

<p>‘Why did you break off our engagement?’</p>

<p>She had been still before; but it seemed as if a hush
came upon the stillness like the glaze of ice upon still
water. There was a pause, so deep that very far off
sounds came near and clamoured at Charles’s ears—a
footstep a long way down the street; a motor horn two
roads away; the sound of wet branches rubbing against
each other from the tree whose yellow leaves he had
watched falling—he could almost have heard them
falling now.</p>

<p>Then Margaret said slowly.</p>

<p>‘Do you want me to tell you that?’</p>

<p>‘I think so—I think it would be better if you did.’</p>

<p>She moved her head a little. The movement said
‘No.’ Her voice came faintly:</p>

<p>‘It won’t do any good.’</p>

<p>‘I want to know. I think you must tell me.’</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Margaret, ‘I must—now. But it won’t
do any good. Nothing will do any good. Only you must
take her away. I can’t have her here. You’ll take her
away tomorrow—won’t you?’</p>

<p>Charles looked at her with a set face.</p>

<p>‘Tell me why you broke off our engagement.’</p>

<p>Just for a moment she stood where she was. Then
she sat down in the nearest chair. It was the armchair
affected by Greta; a novel lay on the floor beside it.
Margaret sat down in the chair. She leaned forward, her
elbows on her knees, her face screened by her hands.</p>

<p>Charles remained standing.</p>

<p>‘Something happened to make you break your
engagement. I want to know what it was.’</p>

<p>‘Yes—something happened.’ She paused. ‘It’s very
difficult to tell.’</p>

<p>‘Something happened after you got home from our
dance that night, for I’ll swear—’ He checked a rising
note of passion, the memory of how they had parted.</p>

<p>‘Some of it happened before. I didn’t know it was
happening—I didn’t know what did happen. It was
that morning. I was in a hurry. I went into the study for
something. You know Freddy used to write there
before breakfast—those long letters he loved to send
people. He always wrote them in the study before
breakfast. No one was allowed to disturb him. It was a
regular family joke. Well, I thought he must have
finished, and I went in. He was standing on the other
side of the room with his back to me, and—Charles,
there was a hole in the wall.’</p>

<p>‘What!’</p>

<p>‘It was a safe. You know, lots of people have them;
only I didn’t know there was such a thing in the house.
He had taken down a picture that covered it. And he
was rustling some papers, so he didn’t hear me come in.
I came right up to the table. And he didn’t hear me, so
I stood there and waited for him to turn round. I
wanted to ask him something—I forget what it was. I
waited. I was rather curious too. There was a letter
lying on the table—it caught my eye. You know, one
wouldn’t ever think of <span class='it'>Freddy’s</span> letters being private—he
used to pass them round. I noticed this one because
it was written on such funny paper, like wrapping
paper. I only saw one sentence, and I thought I had
better not go on looking at it, so I moved back. And
just then Freddy turned round. He was awfully
startled. He thought he had locked the door, and he
kept on saying how careless he was, and that it might
have been one of the maids, and what was the good of a
secret safe if everyone knew where it was? And he said
would I promise not to tell anyone? And then I went
away. I think perhaps he’d forgotten I was going to be
out all day, because he said afterwards he tried to find
me—I <span class='it'>was</span> out, you know, all day.’</p>

<p>Charles knew. They were together on the river—a
cloudless day that neither of them guessed was to be
their last.</p>

<p>Margaret went on. The words were coming more
easily now. It was as if some frightful pressure of
silence was at last finding relief.</p>

<p>‘I only just had time to dress. Freddy seemed quite
pleased all the evening. But when we got home, he let
Mother go upstairs and he said he wanted to speak to
me. I went into the study with him, and he began to
cry. It—it was dreadful. I’d never seen him anything
but cheerful before. I’d never seen a man cry. He sat
down at the table and put his head in his hands and
burst out crying.’</p>

<p>She made a little pause; but Charles did not speak.
She drew in her breath with a shiver and went on:</p>

<p>‘It was about my mother. He told me she was very
ill. He said she did not know it herself. He said if she
had any trouble or anxiety, it would kill her. And then
he put his head in his hands and groaned and said he
was her murderer.’ Again the pause, the shivering
breath. ‘I couldn’t understand what he meant. And all
of a sudden he began to talk about my coming into the
study that morning. He asked me if I had noticed a
letter lying on the table. I had almost forgotten all
about it. He kept on asking whether I had read any of it,
and how much I had read. And I told him I had only
seen one sentence and a name. And I asked him if it
was the name of a racehorse.’ Her voice sank and
ceased.</p>

<p>Charles stood dark and frowning above her. He
spoke now, sharply.</p>

<p>‘What did you see?’</p>

<p>Without looking at him and without answering, she
took her hands from her face and spread them to the
cold unlighted fire.</p>

<p>Charles repeated his question:</p>

<p>‘What did you see?’</p>

<p>‘I can’t tell you—I mustn’t—I promised.’</p>

<p>‘What name did you see?’</p>

<p>‘I didn’t know it was a name—I didn’t know what it
was.’</p>

<p>‘You saw a name. What was it?’</p>

<p>‘Grey Mask,’ said Margaret in a whisper.</p>

<p>After a moment Charles said, ‘Go on.’</p>

<p>‘He was dreadfully upset. He cried. After a bit he
told me that when he was a boy he had got mixed up in
a secret society. You know he lived abroad with his
mother and never went to school or college. He said he
got into bad company.’ For the first time she looked at
Charles. It was a look of appeal—for Freddy, not for
herself. ‘You can imagine how it happened—you can
imagine what Freddy was like as a boy.’</p>

<p>Charles had nothing sympathetic to say about
Freddy. He said nothing.</p>

<p>‘He joined this secret society. He didn’t tell me what
it was for. He said it was political; but he said everyone
who joined it signed a statement that implicated them
in something they could be sent to prison for—they
had to take an oath, and they had to sign a statement
that they had committed some crime. It was all very
carefully worked out. The things were things they
could have done. It was to make it quite safe for the
society. Freddy said he joined it when he was only
seventeen—you know how a boy of that age will join
anything that’s exciting. Well, he said after a few years
he came over here, and he forgot all about it. And then
he came into money, and they began to bother him.
And he said he was in love with my mother, and he did
foolish things to keep them quiet, so that they got a
fresh hold on him. It was idiotic of him, but I don’t
suppose Freddy could help it—I mean he’s like that.
Then after he married Mother it got worse. I don’t
know what they made him do—things he hated, and
things that frightened him. He’d had a rotten time, he
said.’</p>

<p>‘Why did he tell you all this?’</p>

<p>‘Because I had read that bit of the letter. He said
they knew.’</p>

<p>‘How could they know?’</p>

<p>Margaret looked up and then down again. Charles’s
face was like a flint, all the features sharpened, the
brows a black line.</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid Freddy must have told them.’</p>

<p>‘Go on,’ said Charles in an expressionless voice.</p>

<p>Margaret hurried a little.</p>

<p>‘He was afraid of them. He had been afraid of them
for so many years he did not seem to have any will of
his own. He told me the only thing I could do was to
join them.’</p>

<p>‘So you joined them.’ His tone was quite polite and
casual. It touched some secret spring of pride in
Margaret; for the first time a little warmth came over
her, a spark of the old fire showed in her eyes.</p>

<p>‘I said what you would have said—what anyone
would have said. I told him to be a man and stick it out.
And he said it would kill Mother. I think we talked
nearly all night. He told me some things I can’t tell you.
They could have sent him to prison—he said they
would if I refused to join. And he said it would kill
Mother.’ Margaret lifted her eyes to that hard face
above her. They were very desolate, very tired; but the
fire still burned. ‘It would have killed her—you won’t
deny that—it would certainly have killed her.’</p>

<p>Charles did not speak.</p>

<p>‘In the end I gave way. Freddy said it would be a
form, just to make them feel safe. He had the statement
all ready for me to sign.’ Her lip lifted for an instant in
the ghost of a smile. ‘I signed the statement, but I
would not take any oath. I told Freddy it was no good—I
wouldn’t do it; but if they would be satisfied with
knowing they could ruin me if I talked, I’d give them
that. I think I confessed to pilfering jewellery when I
went out to dances. There were some of my friends’
names in the statement. It was frightfully cleverly done—the
things really had been lost, and I could very
easily have taken them. That frightened me afterwards,
because I saw how clever they were. I saw how difficult
it was for Freddy.’ She stopped. There was a dead
silence. When it had lasted an unbearable time, Charles
said, still in that easy voice:</p>

<p>‘Aren’t you going on?’</p>

<p>Margaret started a little. The cold and the silence
had closed in upon her.</p>

<p>‘There isn’t anything more.’</p>

<p>‘I should have thought there was.’</p>

<p>‘I’ve told you.’ Her voice was very tired.</p>

<p>‘You haven’t told me why you broke off our engagement.’</p>

<p>‘How could I go on with it?’</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid I don’t quite understand.’</p>

<p>‘How could I? I’d got into this awful tangle. I
couldn’t let Freddy down. Even if I’d refused to join,
it would have come to the same in the end for—for
us—if there had been a scandal, if Freddy—I couldn’t
have married you—could I? I couldn’t have dragged
you into it. I couldn’t marry you when I knew there
might be some awful smash one day. I looked every
way, and there wasn’t any way out.’ Her voice
trembled into passion. ‘Do you think I wouldn’t have
found a way out if there had been one to find? There
wasn’t any way out. There wasn’t anything I could do
to save—us.’ The last words faltered.</p>

<p>Margaret bent her head upon her hands. She was
colder than she had ever been in her life. If only
Charles would not hate her so! Nothing hurt her any
more—she was too cold for that; but all the strength
went out of her before this implacable resentment, and
though everything in her failed, she had still to go on to
the end. If he would understand a little and forgive! He
did not love her any more; he was falling in love with
Margot Standing. Why need he go on hating her so
much?</p>

<p>‘Thank you. It comes to this—you sacrificed yourself—me—everything,
because Freddy had played the
fool.’ His tone was coldly amused.</p>

<p>Margaret did not answer. ‘I must confess I thought
I’d been cut out by something a little more romantic
than Freddy.’ He paused, laughed, and repeated,
‘Freddy! Good Lord! <span class='it'>Freddy!</span>’ Then, quite suddenly
a violent passion came into his voice. ‘By heaven! I’ll
never forgive you!’ he said, and went out of the room
and out of the flat.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXXI</h1></div>

<p>At eight o’clock next morning Charles Moray, calm
and cheerful, rang the bell of the flat. It may be said
that he was the last person in the world whom
Margaret expected to see. He greeted her without any
sign of embarrassment.</p>

<p>‘Morning, Margaret—thought I’d catch you before
you went off. I suppose Greta isn’t up. You might just
tell her to hurry and pack anything she’s got—no, she
hasn’t got anything—has she? But perhaps you won’t
mind lending her what she wants for a day or two.’</p>

<p>‘You’re taking her away?’</p>

<p>It was dark in the tiny passage. The early morning
cold chilled everything. He could not see her face; she
was just a black shadow. A chink of light showed
through the unfastened sitting-room door.</p>

<p>‘Yes—I thought I’d better let you know before you
went off.’</p>

<p>‘Where are you taking her?’</p>

<p>‘D’you know, I hadn’t thought of telling you that,’
said Charles. He spoke with the extreme of deliberate
cruelty. He had one thought only—to strike hard, to
strike deep, to break her pride.</p>

<p>Margaret had no pride left to break; it was all
broken, and her heart too. She made no answer, only
turned and went away from him into the sitting-room.</p>

<p>He came in after her and shut the door. His manner
changed.</p>

<p>‘Will you tell me that it is safe for you to know where
she is? Will you tell me that? Is it safe?’</p>

<p>Margaret faced him, and faced the light. She could
do that.</p>

<p>Words that he had not planned rushed to Charles’s
lips:</p>

<p>‘Who pushed her yesterday? She said she was pushed.
You heard her. I want to know who pushed her.’</p>

<p>A curious faint tremor touched Margaret. It made a
change in the pale set of her mouth; it altered her. It
was as if something horrible had touched her for an
instant.</p>

<p>‘Who pushed her?’ said Charles in a low, hard
voice.</p>

<p>The tremor came again. This time the horror was in
her eyes.</p>

<p>‘It wasn’t—no—Charles—no!’</p>

<p>‘What are you saying?’</p>

<p>‘He was the other side of me,’ said Margaret in a
shaken whisper.</p>

<p>‘I didn’t mean Freddy,’ said Charles. Then, as he
said the name, he almost laughed, ‘<span class='it'>Freddy!</span>’</p>

<p>‘Who did you mean? Charles—it was an accident.
You don’t think it was anything else?’</p>

<p>‘It would have been a very convenient accident. I’m
going to tell you something. Perhaps you know it
already. I told you once before that I watched a meeting
of this society of yours. I heard them speaking
about Margot. Grey Mask said that if a certain
certificate were found, she would have to be removed.
He said a street accident would be the safest way. Last
night Greta—Margot—babbled at dinner about
having found a certificate. Less than three hours later
the street accident happened. It didn’t quite come off—I
don’t know why.’</p>

<p>‘Ask her why.’</p>

<p>‘No—I’ll ask you—you must have seen what happened.’</p>

<p>‘She slipped.’</p>

<p>‘Why did she slip?’</p>

<p>The horror touched her eyes again.</p>

<p>‘I don’t know. Charles—I <span class='it'>don’t</span> know.’</p>

<p>‘I do. She slipped because she was made to slip,
because she was pushed. I want to know who pushed
her.’</p>

<p>She met his eyes.</p>

<p>‘Did you think I knew?’</p>

<p>Charles did know what he had thought. He had
endured a horrible nightmare in which anything was
possible, an hour in which everything had gone adrift
in a mad storm of evil. He was not sure of what he had
thought in that hour. He looked at Margaret, and woke
up.</p>

<p>The relief was so overwhelming that it carried him
away. He did not know that his face was changed. But
his mood had changed so much that he did not care
where it was taking him. He said,</p>

<p>‘You didn’t see anything then?’ And as Margaret
shook her head, he went on, his voice fallen to a tone of
confidence. ‘You see what it means—they know
where she is—they know where to find her. Look at the
attempt to get her away last night. And then this
accident. You see what it means?’</p>

<p>The change was so sudden that it came near to
breaking Margaret’s self-control. He did not wait for
an answer. He was the old Charles asking for her help.</p>

<p>‘We’ve got to put a stop to it. It can’t go on. Can’t
you help me? If you’d just tell me the whole thing.’</p>

<p>‘But I have.’</p>

<p>‘You said you joined. What happened after that?
Did you meet any of these people? Did you do anything?
Did they make you do anything?’</p>

<p>‘I went two or three times to meetings.’</p>

<p>‘What happened?’</p>

<p>‘Nothing. The first time I just went. There were two
men in the room. They both wore masks. They gave me
a number—twenty-six—and I came away. I went
again about a year later. They asked me to sign another
statement. I said I wouldn’t at first; but in the end I
did.’</p>

<p>‘Did Freddy go with you?’</p>

<p>‘No, I went alone. The last time was the time you
saw me. Freddy was ill. He said there was a meeting,
and he gave me some papers to take. I gave them to
Grey Mask and came away.’</p>

<p>‘He spoke to you.’</p>

<p>‘He asked if Freddy was really ill. He didn’t use his
name, you know—only a number.’</p>

<p>‘The other man’—Charles spoke eagerly—‘the one
at the table? He had his back to me, but you must
have seen his face.’</p>

<p>‘No—he had a mask. I never saw anyone’s face—only
masks.’</p>

<p>He made an exclamation of disappointment.</p>

<p>‘Well, you see I must get her away. I knocked Archie
up after I left here last night, and he says he’ll take
her along to his cousin, Ernestine Foster. He says she’ll
take her in all right. Of course she won’t know who she
is.’</p>

<p>‘Until Greta gives herself away.’</p>

<p>‘Greta must be told not to give herself away.’</p>

<p>Margaret’s eyebrows went up.</p>

<p>‘I know,’ said Charles. ‘But I shall put it across her.
She’s not to mention Egbert, or poor Papa, or that
blighted school of hers.’</p>

<p>Greta put her head round the door and uttered a cry
of rapture.</p>

<p>‘Oh, Charles! How lovely! Have you come to take
me out? Is it fine? Where are we going? I want to drive
the whole way today. But you’ll have to wait—I’m not
dressed.’</p>

<p>‘So I see.’</p>

<p>Greta came farther into the room. She wore a pale
blue kimono; her feet were bare.</p>

<p>‘This is Margaret’s dressing-gown. Isn’t it pretty?
It’s one she had ages ago in her trousseau—Isn’t it,
Margaret? She wouldn’t quite say it was; but I’m sure it
was really, and she didn’t say “No”. Of course the
colours were brighter before it was washed. I’m going to
have one just like it.’</p>

<p>‘Go and dress, baby,’ said Margaret. ‘Charles has
come to take you away.’</p>

<p>Charles found the light words tragic. The tragedy
was in Margaret’s voice and eyes.</p>

<p>Greta gave a little scream.</p>

<p>‘Where are we going, Charles? Where are you going
to take me? Are you going to take me right away?’</p>

<p>She held his arm, tugging at it as a child might have
done.</p>

<p>‘I’m not going to take you like that. Go and dress.
You’re going to stay with a cousin of Archie’s for a bit.’</p>

<p>‘How frightfully exciting! But I don’t want to go
away from Margaret. Won’t she have me any longer?’</p>

<p>She left Charles and flung her arms round Margaret.</p>

<p>‘I don’t want to go away. Even if it’s a little bit dull
all the time you’re out, I’d rather stay here—I would
really. Why are you sending me away? Are you angry?’</p>

<p>Margaret shook her head. Just for a moment she
could not speak.</p>

<p>‘Charles, ask her to let me stay!’ The bare arms
were round Margaret’s neck. ‘Margaret, I do love you!
And you saved my life yesterday—Charles, she really
did. So she ought to keep me. I should have been right
<span class='it'>under</span> that horrible bus if she hadn’t simply clutched
me.’</p>

<p>‘What?’</p>

<p>‘She clutched me and pulled me back. I told you
someone pushed me. And if Margaret hadn’t grabbed
me, I should have gone right under the bus—I know I
should.’</p>

<p>Charles did not look at Margaret. He experienced
some tumultuous emotions. He heard Margaret say, ‘I
must go, or I shall be late. Greta, go and dress.’</p>

<p>‘You haven’t had any breakfast, Margaret.’</p>

<p>‘I can’t stop.’</p>

<p>‘Oh—’ said Greta.</p>

<p>Margaret had detached herself and was at the door.</p>

<p>‘Go and dress,’ she said, and went out.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXXII</h1></div>

<p>The sun came out later on; the October air glowed in
an enchanting mixture of warmth and freshness. It was
strange to see the trees hung with yellow instead of
green.</p>

<p>Margaret had a busy morning. Women buy new hats
when the sun shines. A stout lady with red hair bought
six hats one after the other. She did not try them on—that
was Margaret’s business; she had to present Mrs
Collinson Jones with a pleasing picture of the hat she
meant to buy. If it looked well on Margaret, she bought
it with a magnificent disregard of her own contours
and complexion. All the hats were very expensive.</p>

<p>When Mrs Collinson Jones had departed, Margaret
had a helpless bride and her still more helpless mother
on her hands. Neither Mrs Kennett or Miss Rosabel
Kennett had the very slightest idea what they wanted.
They were both pretty, fair, fluffy, and ineffective.
Rosabel tried on eighteen hats, and Mrs Kennett
always murmured ‘<span class='it'>Sweet!</span>’ But in the end she and her
daughter departed without having made a purchase.</p>

<p>The Kennetts were succeeded by Miss Canterbury,
who wanted something which neither Sauterelle nor
any other modern shop was likely to have.</p>

<p>‘I don’t care about these hats that hide the ears—they
swallow you up so. I remember a most charming
hat I had before the war, trimmed with shaded tulle
and ostrich feathers. I wore it to the Deanery garden-party,
and it was <span class='it'>much</span> admired.’</p>

<p>Margaret tried to picture the tiny bent creature in a
cart-wheel hat weighed down with trimming. She
offered a neat small velvet shape.</p>

<p>‘Would madam care to try this?’</p>

<p>‘Feathers,’ said Miss Canterbury peevishly.</p>

<p>‘If madam liked, she could have a feather mount at
the side.’</p>

<p>Miss Canterbury waved the shape away.</p>

<p>‘Too small—too trivial. No, that one’s too large for
me. No, I don’t care for velvet. The hat I was telling
you about was made of the most charming crinoline
straw, and the tulle was put on in big bows under the
ostrich feathers—a most charming effect.’</p>

<p>‘Perhaps we could make you a hat, madam?’</p>

<p>‘No—I shouldn’t care for that. It’s really very disappointing
not to be able to get an ordinary black hat
with feathers in Sloane Street.’</p>

<p>After Miss Canterbury, a charming round-about
little lady with plump rosy cheeks and crisp grey hair.</p>

<p>‘Can you match this in a velour?’</p>

<p>Margaret took the scrap of crimson velvet ribbon.
‘I’m not sure, madam. I’ll show you what we have.’</p>

<p>As she crossed the room, one of the other girls spoke
to her.</p>

<p>‘Miss Langton, there are some new velours just come
in.’</p>

<p>She came back to the little plump lady, and found
herself scrutinized. The red hat was tried on; but the
little lady’s attention seemed to wander.</p>

<p>‘Very nice—yes, very nice indeed. Yes, I’ll take it.
Did I hear someone call you Miss Langton just now?’</p>

<p>Margaret smiled and said, ‘Yes.’</p>

<p>The little lady hesitated and dropped her voice.</p>

<p>‘Is your name Margaret? No, it can’t be. But the
name—and I thought I saw a likeness—I used to
know—’</p>

<p>‘My name <span class='it'>is</span> Margaret Langton.’</p>

<p>‘Not Esther Langton’s daughter! Oh, my dear, I’m
so pleased to meet you. Your mother was a very great
friend about a hundred years ago when we were all
very young and foolish—oh yes, a very great friend.
Only you won’t ever have heard of me, I expect. My
name is Mrs Ravenna, but I used to be Lesbia Boyne.’</p>

<p>Margaret was so much startled that for a moment
she wasn’t in Sloane Street at all. The hats, the showroom,
weren’t there any more. She was standing at
the door of another room, a very long-ago room indeed.
Her mother was there, and a little lady in a lilac dress.
Her mother said, ‘Lesbia—the child!’</p>

<p>She shut her eyes for a moment, and opened them to
see Mrs Ravenna looking at her with an air of concern;
she held her head a little on one side, and had the air
of a plump, kind bird.</p>

<p>‘I startled you—I’m afraid I startled you.’</p>

<p>‘A little,’ said Margaret—‘just a little—because I
have heard of you—my mother spoke of you—when I
was a child.’</p>

<p>‘Not since then? Now that’s too bad! But we must
make up for lost time. I’d like to have you come and
lunch with me, right away if you can. Can you manage
it? You’re not engaged?’</p>

<p>Margaret shook her head.</p>

<p>‘Then I’ll go and speak to Madam. Just you wait.’</p>

<p>She went off smiling, and in a minute was back
again.</p>

<p>‘I’ve made love to her very successfully. I told her it
was a very romantic meeting, and she says you may
take an extra half-hour. So we can have a real, good
talk. We’ll come along to my hotel. I’m at The Luxe.’</p>

<p>Mrs Ravenna was very comfortably installed at The
Luxe, with a private sitting-room.</p>

<p>‘My dear, you look starving,’ she said to Margaret.
‘Now tell me, are you working too hard? Is that it?
Serving tiresome women with hats they don’t really
want? I’m one of them, and my conscience pinches me.
You’ve no business to look so pale. I remember a little
girl with a very nice bright colour.’</p>

<p>‘I was late, and I hadn’t really time for my breakfast,’
said Margaret.</p>

<p>Mrs Ravenna was most dreadfully shocked.</p>

<p>‘You lean right back and close your eyes, and don’t
you say a single word till you’ve had some soup. You
look positively frozen.’</p>

<p>The soup was deliciously hot. When Margaret had
drunk it and was eating fish which tasted like some
pleasantly new variety, Mrs Ravenna removed the
embargo on conversation.</p>

<p>‘That’s better! I couldn’t talk to someone that I was
expecting to faint all the time.’</p>

<p>Margaret laughed.</p>

<p>‘I never faint.’</p>

<p>‘I should faint in a minute if I didn’t have my
breakfast. It would be very good for my figure, but I
couldn’t do it—I don’t bother about it any more. If I
bothered, I shouldn’t be so plump. But I can’t do with
being bothered—it’s so worrying. And I’d rather be
plump than have my face all over lines. Why, I know
women that spend every morning in a beauty parlour,
and they’ve got twice as many lines as I have. Of course
it’s lovely if you can have it both ways—no lines and a
willowy figure. But that’s only for the very, very few.
Now your mother—’</p>

<p>Margaret laid down her fork.</p>

<p>‘Yes, do tell me about my mother.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, she was looking very well. Of course I only saw
her for a moment.</p>

<p>‘Mrs Ravenna!’</p>

<p>‘Yes?’ The little lady put her head on one side.</p>

<p>‘Please—what did you say?’</p>

<p>‘I said that Esther was looking very well—and so she
was. My dear, what’s the matter?’</p>

<p>‘You haven’t heard—’ Margaret had to force her
voice.</p>

<p>Mrs Ravenna was plainly startled.</p>

<p>‘What! You don’t <span class='it'>mean</span>! Oh, my dear girl! <span class='it'>When?</span>’</p>

<p>‘Six months ago.’</p>

<p>Mrs Ravenna sat up straight.</p>

<p>‘Margaret Langton, you’re not telling me your
mother died six months ago?’</p>

<p>Margaret said, ‘Yes’.</p>

<p>‘Your mother—Esther Langton—Esther Pelham?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘But I saw her.’</p>

<p>‘Where did you see her?’</p>

<p>‘It was only for a minute, but I made sure. My dear,
you don’t know how you’ve shocked me. I did see her.’</p>

<p>Margaret held the arms of her chair.</p>

<p>‘Mrs Ravenna—won’t you tell me—what you
mean?’</p>

<p>‘I thought I saw her—and you tell me—six months
ago? Impossible! Oh, I can’t believe it! She looked so
well.’</p>

<p>Margaret shut her eyes for a moment. The room was
turning round. Mrs Ravenna’s voice came from a long
way off.</p>

<p>‘My dear, how cruel of me! But I didn’t know. I
certainly thought I saw her.’</p>

<p>She opened her eyes.</p>

<p>‘My mother died six months ago in Hungary. They
were travelling—for her health—and she died.’
Margaret’s voice was slow and low.</p>

<p>Mrs Ravenna gave a little sharp cry.</p>

<p>‘Six months ago? But I saw her! My dear, I saw her,
only a fortnight ago in Vienna.’</p>

<p>‘I—Mrs Ravenna!’</p>

<p>‘My dear, I <span class='it'>thought</span> I saw her.’</p>

<p>‘Did you speak to her?’</p>

<p>‘I hadn’t a chance. I was ever so vexed. You can’t
think how vexed I was. My train was just starting. I was
leaning out of the window waving goodbye to the friend
I’d been staying with, and I saw Esther in the crowd.’</p>

<p>Her grief closed down on Margaret’s heart.</p>

<p>‘It was a mistake.’</p>

<p>‘I suppose it must have been. But, my dear—such a
resemblance. She was standing looking up with the
light shining on her. I thought how little she had
changed. I waved to her, and I called out, and I
thought she recognized me.’</p>

<p>Margaret made a little sound of protest.</p>

<p>‘It was a mistake.’</p>

<p>‘I thought she recognized me. You know how a person
looks when they know you—she looked like that.
And then I was ever so disappointed because she didn’t
wave to me or anything—she just turned and walked
away. I was ever so disappointed.’</p>

<p>‘It was somebody else,’ said Margaret, with sad
finality.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXXIII</h1></div>

<p>Charles did his duty by Miss Greta Wilson for a couple
of hours. He let her drive and entertained her to the
best of his ability. She talked continuously.</p>

<p>‘Margaret was rather odd this morning. Charles,
didn’t you think Margaret was rather odd this morning?
I did. Do you think she was angry because of my
going away?’</p>

<p>‘I think she’ll be able to bear up without you.’</p>

<p>‘What a frightfully horrid thing to say! I don’t like
you a bit when you say things like that. Archie never
says things like that.’ She giggled and swerved dangerously
right across the road. ‘Charles, why does it do
that?’</p>

<p>Charles kept a steadying hand on the wheel.</p>

<p>‘Keep your eye on the road,’ he said sternly.</p>

<p>‘I only looked at you,’ said Greta in an injured
voice. ‘Archie likes to have me look at him. Yesterday,
when I looked at him, he said I’d got eyes like blue
flowers—he did really.’</p>

<p>‘You weren’t driving a car. You keep your eye on the
road.’</p>

<p>‘I am keeping it on the road. Archie likes me to look
at him. He did say that about my eyes. Are they like
blue flowers, Charles?’</p>

<p>‘You keep ’em on the road,’ said Charles firmly.</p>

<p>Greta recurred to Margaret.</p>

<p>‘You didn’t answer about Margaret. Shall I like
Archie’s cousin? Is she like Archie? I don’t think
Archie would make a pretty girl. Do you? Do you think
Margaret is pretty?’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>He had often thought her beautiful.</p>

<p>‘You’ve known her a frightfully long time, haven’t
you? You know, she won’t tell me whether she was
ever really engaged or not. But I think she must have
been. Don’t you? Of course I was only teasing her
about the blue dressing-gown. But I think she must
have been engaged really, and perhaps there’s some
frightfully romantic reason why she isn’t married.
Sometimes I think it’s rather ordinary to get married,
and that it would really be more romantic to have a
hopeless attachment. Perhaps Margaret has got a
frightfully romantic hopeless attachment. Do you think
she has?’</p>

<p>‘Among the Drastik Indians women who ask
questions are buried alive,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>Greta gave a little shriek and did another swerve.</p>

<p>‘Charles, it did it again! <span class='it'>Why</span> does it do it?’</p>

<p>‘Because you look round at me. I’m going to drive
now, and then you can look at me as much as you
like.’</p>

<p>When he had handed her over to Ernestine Foster,
he went rather reluctantly to call on Miss Silver.</p>

<p>She was knitting an infant’s pale blue woolly coat. A
white silk handkerchief lay in her lap. When she saw
Charles, she wrapped the pale blue coat in the handkerchief
and dropped it into her knitting-bag. She said
‘Good morning,’ and then in the same breath,</p>

<p>‘I’m very glad you’ve come.’</p>

<p>Charles was wishing the interview well over; he was
wishing he had never come at all. Everytime it got
more difficult to steer a course between Greta’s safety
and Margaret’s.</p>

<p>Miss Silver took a sheet of paper out of a drawer and
handed it to Charles.</p>

<p>‘I thought you might come in, so I prepared this for
you. I should like you to read it. It is a list of the cases
in which I believe Grey Mask to have had a hand. In
the ones marked with an asterisk the evidence is strong;
in the others it is of a slighter nature; in the two last in
the list it really amounts to nothing more than suspicion.
You may remember some of the cases.’</p>

<p>Charles looked at the list. Miss Silver was right; he
remembered some of the cases. What he remembered
about them appalled him. His brows drew together as
he read:</p>

<p>‘ “The Falny Case”—Good heavens! “The Martin
Case”—Martin got twenty years for that.’ The words
came out just above his breath.</p>

<p>Miss Silver answered them.</p>

<p>‘Yes. But Grey Mask was behind him, and Grey
Mask went scot free. I knew Martin’s wife. She told me
things—nothing, you understand, that could have been
used in evidence. You know what I mean, Mr Moray—“The
little more, and how much it is; the little less, and
what worlds away.” ’</p>

<p>Charles went on looking at the list. Names—a date
or two—an occasional curt comment: ‘No arrest ever
made’; ‘Smith arrested, but died before trial’; ‘Jewels
never traced.’ When he had read to the end, he gave
the paper back with a ‘thank you’.</p>

<p>Miss Silver locked it up again.</p>

<p>‘Do you feel quite comfortable about Miss Standing?’</p>

<p>‘No,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>‘She had a narrow escape last night, Mr Moray.’</p>

<p>Charles looked at her without speaking.</p>

<p>‘It is not at all prudent for her to go to the theatre or
to appear in public as she is doing.’</p>

<p>‘Do you suggest that I should lock her up?’</p>

<p>Miss Silver coughed. Charles leaned forward.</p>

<p>‘You speak of her having had a narrow escape. What
do you mean?’</p>

<p>‘Well, Mr Moray, it was a narrow escape—wasn’t it?’</p>

<p>‘How do you know about it?’</p>

<p>‘I was following you.’</p>

<p>‘You saw it happen?’</p>

<p>‘Unfortunately, no. I saw Miss Standing and Miss
Langton step off the kerb, with Mr Pelham a little
behind them on Miss Langton’s right. Then two men
passed in front of me. I heard Miss Standing scream,
and then I saw her lying on the ground. I waited until
you took her away. What is her account?’</p>

<p>‘She says that someone pushed her, and that Miss
Langton saved her from going under the bus.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver looked at him mildly.</p>

<p>‘Miss Langton saved her—she says that? Does she
know who pushed her?’</p>

<p>‘No, she doesn’t. Miss Silver—the two men you
spoke of—were they near enough?’</p>

<p>‘I am not sure. I spoke to them afterwards, but they
declared they had not seen anything—they said they
were talking. The policeman took down their names
and addresses. They were quite genuine—two young
clerks in a shipping office.’</p>

<p>‘Something else happened last night,’ said Charles.
He gave Greta’s account of the car that had followed
her.</p>

<p>‘Was it the Daimler?’ said Miss Silver.</p>

<p>‘She doesn’t know a Daimler from a wheelbarrow,’
said Charles. ‘And she can’t give any description of the
chauffeur. The only thing she’s sure about is that he
said her cousin wanted her to come at once.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver frowned.</p>

<p>‘You are sure she said her cousin?’</p>

<p>‘Perfectly. Her cousin Egbert Standing. It’s the only
thing she is sure about. By the way, she has left Miss
Langton and is now staying with Mrs Foster, whom I
think you know.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver did not reply. A small puzzled frown
drew her brows together.</p>

<p>‘What about Jaffray?’ said Charles. ‘Anything
more?’</p>

<p>‘Jaffray has returned to his lodgings. I traced the car
to a West End garage, but it was taken out late yesterday
afternoon.’</p>

<p>‘By Jaffray?’</p>

<p>‘No, not by Jaffray. It was not brought there by
Jaffray either. The same man brought it and took it
away. The only thing the people at the garage appear to
have noticed about him was that he had red hair.’</p>

<p>‘Red hair?’</p>

<p>‘So they said. If it is the man I suspect, the red hair is
merely assumed. It makes a very good disguise, you
know, just because everyone notices it.’</p>

<p>‘Who do you think he is?’</p>

<p>‘I am not prepared to say. Your story doesn’t fit in. I
must follow it a little farther. You are quite sure Miss
Standing said that it was her cousin Egbert who tried to
carry her off?’</p>

<p>‘She didn’t see him,’ said Charles; ‘she only saw the
chauffeur.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver coughed.</p>

<p>‘I think I had better see Miss Margot Standing,’ she
said.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXXIV</h1></div>

<p>Mrs Ravenna drove Margaret back to Sauterelle’s.</p>

<p>‘I’m only in town for two days, and I simply must
see you again. I kept tonight for a cousin whom I
haven’t seen for eighteen years; but she’s wired to say
she can’t leave her husband, so I’d like to have you
come instead if you will. Will you, my dear? If you
don’t, I shall think you’ve not forgiven me for having
startled you with my stupid mistake.’</p>

<p>Margaret accepted. She had no wish to spend the
evening alone hearing the silence of her little room give
up an echo of what Charles Moray had said. She
looked at the old green desk as she stood waiting for a
minute or two before walking to the corner to catch her
bus. The room was silent; she missed Greta’s chatter
and Archie’s laugh. She looked at the old green desk,
and remembered the envelope that Greta had found. It
was in her mind that she would ask Mrs Ravenna
about the words which she had overheard as a child.</p>

<p>She waited until dinner was over and they were
sitting on either side of a pleasant blazing fire, with
coffee set out on a small table between them. She helped
herself to candied sugar and said:</p>

<p>‘Mrs Ravenna—’</p>

<p>‘Yes, my dear? What is it?’</p>

<p>‘I remember something—I want to ask you about
it—something that happened when I was a child. I
remember it quite clearly, just as if I was seeing a
picture. You and my mother were in a room together.
My mother had on a white dress—the sun shone across
it—she had a bunch of carnations here.’ Margaret’s
hand went up to her breast. ‘She was standing by the
window, and you were sitting at a round table that had
books on it. You had a lilac dress. I was about six years
old. And I pushed open the door and saw you, and I
heard my mother say, “It was marriage by declaration”.
And then she saw me and said, “Lesbia—the
child!” ’</p>

<p>Mrs Ravenna’s face showed the most lively interest.</p>

<p>‘Fancy your remembering that old lilac dress of
mine! I must say it was a very pretty one, and I always
thought it suited me very well. But just think of your
remembering it! It’s all <span class='it'>I</span> can do to remember dresses I
had eighteen years ago.’</p>

<p>‘Mrs Ravenna,’ said Margaret, ‘what did my
mother mean?’</p>

<p>‘What did she say?’</p>

<p>‘She said, “It was marriage by declaration”. What
did she mean?’</p>

<p>Mrs Ravenna put her head on one side.</p>

<p>‘Well, d’you know, Margaret, I’m not so very sure
that I’ve any business to tell you.’</p>

<p>‘Mrs Ravenna—if you <span class='it'>could</span>?’</p>

<p>Lesbia Ravenna hesitated. The hour, the firelight,
the comfortable after-dinner mood, all prompted her to
an interesting indiscretion. On the other hand she had
held her tongue for eighteen years—yes, but all the
people concerned were dead—still, a promise is a
promise—well, but there wasn’t any actual promise,
and it’s only to Esther’s own daughter.</p>

<p>‘Mrs Ravenna—can’t you tell me?’</p>

<p>‘I can. I’m just not very sure whether I ought to. I
don’t see that I should be doing any harm, but—’
She caught Margaret’s look. ‘Well, I don’t see why I
shouldn’t tell you after all these years, and when
they’re all dead—it’s not as if it can hurt anyone now.
Of course I don’t know how much you know already.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know anything.’</p>

<p>Mrs Ravenna shot a quick bird-like glance at her.
She did know something, or why had she such an
anxious look? She hadn’t her mother’s bloom—she was
far too worn for her age. But what a fine head!</p>

<p>‘Well, my dear,’ she said, ‘very few people knew
anything. I’ve always wondered how these things can
be kept secret—but people manage it somehow. It all
happened in Edinburgh. I only knew Edward Standing
very slightly myself. He didn’t come to the house, you
understand. Old Archie Brandon wouldn’t have had
him—he was just a bank clerk. It only shows you never
can tell—I see he died a millionaire. But nobody could
have dreamed of such a thing then. I met them together
once, walking up and down in the twilight, and she
asked me not to mention it to her uncle—he was rather
a savage old man, and she had to do as she was told.’</p>

<p>Margaret leaned forward; her hands clasped one
another tightly; her tragic apprehensive eyes were fixed
on Lesbia Ravenna’s face.</p>

<p>‘Of course I didn’t know about the marriage at the
time—you mustn’t think that. Esther told me about it
the following summer. It must have been the day you
remember. It’s funny your remembering what she said
about marriage by declaration. That’s just what she did
say—she told me there had been a marriage by
declaration, and then a frightful quarrel. I think he
wanted her to come away and tell everyone, and she
wouldn’t—she wouldn’t face old Archie. And it came
to a really terrible quarrel between them. He was a
hot-tempered young man, and he got it into his head
she was ashamed of him—ashamed of his position, you
know. And he went off in a rage, swearing she should
never see him again until he could offer her a position
that she wouldn’t have any need to be ashamed of. He
sailed for New York in a tramp steamer, and it went
down. It was an awful shock of course; but after the
first blow I think it was a bit of a relief too. He
dominated her a good deal. She wasn’t really what I
would call in love with him, and after the first shock
wore off, I do think it was a relief. And then—oh, my
dear, you can guess what a terrible thing it was when
she found she was going to have a child. <span class='it'>Of course</span> the
marriage ought to have been given out at once—I’ve
always said so—I said so to Esther the very first minute
she told me about it, but then, of course, it was too late.
They should have given it out at once—told the whole
story from beginning to end. People would have been
sorry for her then. But, as I say, by the time Esther told
me, it was too late to do anything. The baby was born,
somewhere over in France, I believe, and put out to
nurse. Don’t ask me how people contrive these things—they
do; and I’m sure I’ve often wondered how. The
whole thing was a senseless piece of mismanagement.
She was frightened to death of her uncle, and that was
the beginning and the end of it. Well, about a year
later she got married. I don’t know how much she told
him, or whether she told him anything. She married
him, and two years later Edward Standing came back.
Frightful—wasn’t it? Esther told me about it. It was
just before I went out to the States to be married. I
thought it all very shocking. But Edward Standing
had his own violent temper to blame for it. He’d let
her think him dead on purpose—wanted to come back
with a flourish or never come back at all; and I suppose,
like most men, he thought everything was going to
stand still whilst he was away. Well, he came back, and
he found her married to someone else. There must have
been a very dreadful scene. It ended in his giving her
up. He cared for her much more deeply and truly than
anyone had given him credit for. He went away, and I
believe he took the little girl. She didn’t live very long.’</p>

<p>Margaret spoke with dry lips:</p>

<p>‘She’s alive now.’</p>

<p>‘Oh no, my dear.’</p>

<p>‘She is.’</p>

<p>Mrs Ravenna stared.</p>

<p>‘Alive? My dear, she died—oh, quite sixteen years
ago. Poor Margaret!’</p>

<p>‘Mrs Ravenna, <span class='it'>please</span>—who are you speaking of?’</p>

<p>‘Of Margaret.’</p>

<p>‘What Margaret?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, who could I be speaking of? Your mother’s
sister, Margaret Brandon. She married Herbert Faring.
I suppose you hardly remember her?’</p>

<p>Margaret put out her hand. It was a purely
instinctive movement. Everything was slipping. Her
hand went out into empty air and she slid forward in a
dead faint.</p>

<p>Ten minutes later Mrs Ravenna was still petting her,
fussing over her, and accusing herself of stupidity.</p>

<p>‘My dear, of course I never dreamt. It was too bad.
But I had her so much in my mind, and of course to
you she was only a name.’</p>

<p>‘Not even that,’ said Margaret. ‘I suppose I knew
that my mother had a sister—yes, of course I did know
that. But my mother never spoke of her—never at all.’</p>

<p>‘She didn’t like Herbert Faring. She and Margaret
never met except when he was away. And after
Margaret died—no, I suppose Esther wouldn’t speak
of her—she was like that.’</p>

<p>Margaret lay back amongst the soft cushions that
had been piled behind her. It was true. Esther Pelham
had lived very fully and sufficiently in the present;
every day brought her so much that she had no time for
the past. Margaret Brandon had slipped away into the
past and been lost there.</p>

<p>After a silence she asked:</p>

<p>‘Was the marriage legal?’</p>

<p>‘The marriage with Edward Standing? Oh yes, my
dear—that was the trouble. They had made a declaration
in writing, and he had it. If he had chosen, he
could have upset the marriage with Herbert Faring and
made a most frightful scandal. In the end he gave her
the paper and promised never to make any claim.’</p>

<p>Margaret sat up.</p>

<p>‘Nobody seems to have thought of the child,’ she said.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXXV</h1></div>

<p>Miss Silver called that evening at Mrs Foster’s.</p>

<p>She did not see Miss Greta Wilson, because Greta
had gone out to dine and dance with Archie Millar.
Mrs Foster had, in fact, sent them out.</p>

<p>‘It’s no use, Archie. I’ve taken her in to please you,
but I’m not going to put my table out. It holds eight,
and it won’t hold any more. So you’ve just got to take
her away and dance with her. She won’t mind.’</p>

<p>Greta was frankly delighted.</p>

<p>‘Does Charles dance as well as you do?’</p>

<p>‘Haven’t you danced with Charles?’ said Archie.</p>

<p>‘Not yet. Does he dance as well as you do?’</p>

<p>‘Oh, he couldn’t do that. I don’t want to shatter any
of your young illusions, you know; but after four years
explorin’ in desert wastes I shouldn’t wonder if poor
old Charles wasn’t a bit of a back number.’</p>

<p>Greta gave a little shriek.</p>

<p>‘Oh! Archie! There’s Ambrose!’</p>

<p>‘Who’s Ambrose?’</p>

<p>‘There! He’s Ambrose Kimberley. He came to the
flat one day when Margaret was out. And I went for a
walk with him, and Charles was in a most frightful
temper about it. I do think Charles has got a temper.
Don’t you? He was in a frightful temper about Ambrose.
Oh, Archie, he’s seen me! He waved his hand! Did you
see? Don’t you call him frightfully good looking?’</p>

<p>Archie eyed Mr Kimberley coldly.</p>

<p>‘He’s the brand they grow for the movies—good old
Hollywood vintage—full of bouquet—mellow on the
palate—sweet as cream—flappers like it.’</p>

<p>Greta giggled.</p>

<p>‘He’s got lovely eyelashes. Charles was frightfully
cross because I told him they were yards longer than
his.’</p>

<p>‘Men don’t have eyelashes,’ said Archie sternly.
‘It’s not done.’</p>

<p>Charles, after dining alone, walked to Thornhill
Square. He thought he would like to have a talk with
Mrs Lattery.</p>

<p>‘I think I shall be coming to live in the house next
week,’ he began, and had to endure Mrs Lattery’s very
voluble plans for his accommodation.</p>

<p>‘And I don’t know whether you’ll be wanting to
entertain, sir.’</p>

<p>‘Probably,’ said Charles.</p>

<p>Mrs Lattery embarked on the question of the staff
that would be required.</p>

<p>‘My brother, sir, will be looking for a place. I don’t
know whether you would consider him. He’s been in
very good places.’</p>

<p>‘As?’</p>

<p>‘As butler, sir—he’s been in very good places indeed,
sir.’</p>

<p>Charles found himself a good deal interested in Mrs
Lattery’s brother. Pullen was the name—yes, Pullen.</p>

<p>‘He was with Lady Perringham, sir, and before that
with Mr Mackay. He has always given every satisfaction.’</p>

<p>‘And where is he now?’ said Charles.</p>

<p>‘He was in the service of the late Mr Standing, sir.
But I hear the house is to be closed, and my brother—Pullen’s
the name, sir—he’ll be looking for something
else and I thought—’</p>

<p>‘Quite so,’ said Charles. He wondered whether
William Cole, alias Leonard Morrison, also wished to
take service with him; and he wondered what would
happen if he were to engage these two interesting
persons.</p>

<p>He left the house and betook himself to call on
Margaret. It was by now rather after half-past nine.
He climbed the steep, narrow stair and stood for a
moment on the dimly lighted landing. He had come to
see Margaret, but having come, he was in two minds as
to whether he would not turn round and go away. He
came slowly to the door of the flat and stood hesitating.
As he did so, he noticed that the door was not fastened.
He pushed it gently, and heard a faint click. Someone
had just put out the electric light.</p>

<p>Charles took one step across the passage and thrust
open the sitting-room door. The room was in darkness.
He called ‘Margaret!’ and felt for the switch. Someone
charged him with a headlong rush that carried him
back through the door into the tiny passage. He fetched
up against the wall with a bang.</p>

<p>In the half-minute’s struggle that followed he had the
man by the throat, was violently kicked on the shins,
lost his grip, had an impression of a long, thin, twisting
form, extraordinarily strong, extraordinarily supple,
and gripped a bony wrist, only to have it wrenched
away. The door of the flat slammed. Charles got it open
and pursued. The intruder was away before he reached
the entrance. After prospecting, Charles returned to the
flat and put on the light.</p>

<p>The old green desk stood on the table. It had been
turned inside out. The drawers of the bureau were
standing out upon the floor.</p>

<p>Charles whistled. He went over to the bedroom,
knocked, and then in sudden deadly fear, pushed in.
The light showed him Margaret’s black day dress lying
across a chair. The room was empty. The little kitchen
was empty too. Margaret was clearly out.</p>

<p>Charles returned to the sitting-room and sat down to
await her return. He left the room in its disorder, and
as he sat looking at his disorder he thought very deeply.</p>

<p>Margaret—what a mess she had got herself into!
That little ass Freddy! If there <span class='it'>was</span> a comic opera conspiracy
knocking around, it was just like Freddy to get
mixed up in it—all very earnestly—very much <span class='it'>pour le
bon motif</span>. He could imagine Freddy full of bright and
boring enthusiasms, full to the brim of absurd zeal, and
then suddenly discovering that he’d got let in by a lot of
crooks and being scared to death. A well-meaning little
fool if ever there was one. But Margaret—what could
one do about Margaret? That she should have been
dragged into the mess to save Freddy’s skin! She must
be got out again—that went without saying; and if
Freddy had got her in, it was for Freddy to get her out.
Those statements she had signed must be got back. By
hook or crook Freddy must get them back. He couldn’t
have been mixed up with the Grey Mask lot for twenty-five
years or so without getting to know a bit. He
probably knew where the papers were likely to be;
it was even barely possible that he had kept them himself.
An early interview with Freddy Pelham was certainly
indicated.</p>

<p>Margaret came in at eleven.</p>

<p>‘Charles! What on earth?’</p>

<p>‘You’re not as surprised as I was when I got here and
found a burglar in possession.’</p>

<p>‘A burglar!’</p>

<p>‘Did you think I’d been going through your desk and
bureau?’</p>

<p>Margaret gazed at the turned out drawers, the
ransacked desk.</p>

<p>‘What did he come for?’ said Charles quickly. ‘What
did he come for, and what did he get away with?’</p>

<p>‘Oh!’ said Margaret. ‘Oh, I left it locked.’</p>

<p>‘The bureau?’</p>

<p>‘This drawer.’ She turned over the papers that lay in
confusion. ‘Charles, it’s gone!’</p>

<p>‘What’s gone?’</p>

<p>‘The certificate. No, it wasn’t the certificate—it was
only the envelope. I forgot—you don’t know that
Greta found it. Charles, do you know who Greta’s
mother was? She was my mother’s sister. She was
Margaret Brandon. The certificate was in my mother’s
desk. Greta is my cousin.’</p>

<p>‘You found the certificate?’</p>

<p>‘No—only the envelope, endorsed by Edward
Standing. The marriage was secret—a Scotch marriage
by declaration. I’ve just been hearing the whole story
from my mother’s oldest friend.’ She told him what
Lesbia Ravenna had told her. ‘I don’t know how the
envelope came to be in my mother’s desk.’</p>

<p>‘You say Standing gave the declaration back to
Mrs Faring. She probably wouldn’t keep it herself—I
think she would have been afraid to keep it herself. But
perhaps she wouldn’t destroy it, for the child’s sake and
perhaps for her own sake too, in case the story ever
came out. I expect she gave it to her sister to keep.’</p>

<p>‘But the envelope was empty.’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Charles, ‘Mrs Faring had committed
bigamy. They may have been frightened about that. It
was certainly safer not to keep the declaration.’</p>

<p>‘They kept the envelope.’</p>

<p>‘Aren’t women like that? They like to keep something.
They don’t go the whole hog and make a clean
sweep of the past like a man does. You say the envelope’s
gone.’</p>

<p>‘Yes. It was in here. Look! The lock’s been forced.’</p>

<p>‘What was on it?’</p>

<p>‘Mr Standing’s endorsement—Greta recognized his
writing at once: “Our declaration of marriage. E. S.” I
think she had signed it too, because something had
been rubbed out—initials, I think, like his. I thought
the second one was a B. You could only just see the
marks.’</p>

<p>‘There was nothing inside the envelope?’</p>

<p>‘Nothing at all.’</p>

<p>The drawer that had been locked was full of tumbled
papers. Margaret began to straighten them. As she
lifted one, a snapshot of Charles looked up at her. She
covered it quickly. That old boyish smile was gone.</p>

<p>‘Here, let’s put these things away.’</p>

<p>Charles spoke from just behind her. She did not
know whether he had seen the photograph or not. He
helped her to put the drawers away. It was strange to
be doing these things with Charles; strange and yet
extraordinarily natural to be talking to him in her flat
at midnight. It was the first time since their parting that
they had talked without bitterness. The hour comforted
Margaret. He would go away, and he would marry
Greta; but at least there would have been this moment
when he didn’t hate her. Perhaps when he was married
to Greta he would stop hating her altogether. The
thought touched something that lay dead, and the old
vehement, passionate Margaret woke.</p>

<p>All at once she was so intensely aware of Charles
and of herself that they might have been new creatures
in a new world. The colour came into her cheeks.</p>

<p>Charles looked at her in astonishment. The sad pale
ghost of Margaret was gone. This was Margaret herself.</p>

<p>They looked at one another in silence. The little
green clock which he had given her ticked from the
mantelpiece. Charles pushed the last drawer home and
rose to his feet. She was only a yard away, but there
were four years between them still.</p>

<p>‘Why did you do it?’ he said. It was the third time
that he had asked the question; he had not meant to ask
it now.</p>

<p>‘I told you,’ said Margaret with her head up.</p>

<p>‘It wasn’t an answer.’</p>

<p>‘It’s the only answer I’ve got.’</p>

<p>‘Why didn’t you tell me the truth four years ago?’</p>

<p>‘What was the good? There was no way out.’</p>

<p>‘There’s always a way out. We could have made one
together.’ He spoke with extreme vehemence; the flood
of it carried him beyond his own control. ‘You never
loved me. That’s the truth.’</p>

<p>Margaret looked at him. The tide of passion rose
and ebbed again. She would not protest that old dead
love to the Charles of today. She looked at him, and the
strange sense of newness passed away. This was the
flat, unprofitable everyday to which all romance came
in the end. You had to go on and do your best without
it—you had to go on. The colour and the fire went
from her. She looked very tired.</p>

<p>Charles became intensely aware of having made a
fool of himself. He gave a short angry laugh.</p>

<p>‘It’s a bit late in the day for scenes—isn’t it? I don’t
know why I dug that up—it’s rather a poor thing in
ghosts. I meant to talk business with you. I’d like to
still, if you don’t mind.’</p>

<p>‘It’s very late.’ The words came slowly. Charles was
quite right—it was very late—it was four years too late.</p>

<p>‘I won’t keep you long. I wanted to ask you about
those statements you signed. Have you any idea who’s
got them?’</p>

<p>‘I suppose Grey Mask has got them.’</p>

<p>‘You don’t think it possible that Freddy has them?’</p>

<p>‘Oh no—I’m sure he hasn’t. He told me he had to
satisfy the others.’</p>

<p>Charles frowned.</p>

<p>‘Those statements must be got back. I can’t move
whilst you’re compromised—and I’ve got to move for
Greta’s sake.’</p>

<p>Margaret leaned against the mantelpiece.</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid there’s no way of getting them back. You
had better leave me out of it.’</p>

<p>‘How can I?’</p>

<p>‘Very easily.’</p>

<p>Charles looked at her coldly.</p>

<p>‘I call that unintelligent. Do you really expect me to
do anything that would land you in a police court?’</p>

<p>A bright flame burned her cheeks.</p>

<p>‘I don’t ask to be considered. Do you suppose I care
what happens to me? Do you suppose I want you to
risk Greta?’</p>

<p>Charles’s frown darkened.</p>

<p>‘I haven’t any choice. Please be practical. Freddy
got you into the mess, and Freddy ought to get you out
of it. When is he off?’</p>

<p>‘He moved out of the house today. You heard what
he said—he may be off any day. He hates to be tied.’</p>

<p>‘I see. All right, I’ll be going.’</p>

<p>He went as far as the door, then turned, strode back,
and jerked a sudden question at her:</p>

<p>‘Who’s Grey Mask?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know,’ said Margaret.</p>

<p>‘You’ve no idea? None?’</p>

<p>She shook her head. She was frightfully pale.</p>

<p>‘Does Freddy know?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t believe any of them know,’ said Margaret in
a whisper.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXXVI</h1></div>

<p>At eleven o’clock that night the Standing house in
Grange Street was in darkness. On the three upper
floors blinds were down, curtains drawn, and lights
switched off; in the hall a faint glimmer from the small
shaded bulb which burned all night over the telephone.</p>

<p>A man entered Grange Square by Caton Walk and
proceeded at a slow and leisured pace round two sides
of it until he came to the dark square house at the
corner. Here he stood quite still. The railings which
enclosed the plane trees, empty flower beds, and grass
plots of Grange Gardens were at his back.</p>

<p>It was a black night, and he stood where the shadows
were blackest. He watched the house for ten minutes or
so, then walked across the road and up the steps. Here
again he stood and waited.</p>

<p>The house was as quiet as a house might be. The
basement windows showed no glimmer. The man
opened the door with a latch-key and passed into the
hall. It was quite pleasantly warm after the cold in the
square. The tiny bulb over the telephone made the
darkness here seem less dense than the dark outside.</p>

<p>The man crossed the hall and stood a moment by the
study door listening. Then he opened the door very
softly and went in. It was about ten minutes before he
came out again. This time he went up the stairs, which
crossed the back of the hall in a double flight. He had
reached the landing, when the front door opened and
closed again softly. The man on the stair put his right
hand in his pocket, and then moved without haste into
the angle made by the stair as it continued its upward
way. He listened for the sound of another foot on the
marble steps. The only sound that came was the click
of an electric switch.</p>

<p>Instantly the hall below was lighted from end to end,
and against this light the outline of the balustrade,
showed black. The man on the stairs came forward,
leaned on the balustrade and looked over into the hall.
He saw the black and white tesselated floor all empty,
and on the left the open dining-room door. As he
looked, the light went on in the dining-room, and at the
same time he heard a faint shuffling sound. It was the
sound of someone moving, of someone coming downstairs;
but not down these stairs—the sound was too
faint for that. If the man had not possessed phenomenally
acute hearing, the sound would not have reached
him at all.</p>

<p>Someone was coming down the back stairs. He had
only to stand where he was to be unobserved. It
appeared, however, that he not only desired to remain
unseen; he wished, nay, he intended, to see. He moved
quickly along a passage to the right until he reached a
door that opened upon the back stairs. Here he waited,
listening. The soft shuffling footsteps were below him.
He opened the door. The stairs were dark. He followed
the footsteps down into the darkness.</p>

<p>At the foot of the stairs there was a baize door. He
opened it cautiously. The long passage was black, but
even as he looked, light showed at the far end. A
second door swung open, a man’s figure showed
against the light, and then the door swung to again.</p>

<p>After a moment the man followed. At the second
door he listened. There was no sound, but the room
beyond was lighted. He peeped cautiously. The lighted
room was empty. He had come to the butler’s pantry. A
door led out of it through a short length of passage to
the dining-room. He took this way with some assurance,
and at the dining-room door the sound of voices gave
him pause.</p>

<p>Very slowly and gently, he moved the handle round
until the latch slipped and the door came a bare half-inch
towards him. Through the chink he looked into
the lighted dining-room. There were two men there,
both fully dressed. He was able to recognize them both
without difficulty. Facing him was the footman
William Cole. He held a tumbler half-full of whisky and
soda. His coat was torn at the neck, the right cuff was
ripped, his hair a good deal disordered. The other man
was the butler, Pullen. They were talking.</p>

<p>‘Who was it?’ This was Pullen, a little more hurried
than when he was on duty.</p>

<p>‘How should I know? I didn’t wait to ask his name, I
can tell you. It took me all I knew to get away—and all
for nothing.’</p>

<p>‘You didn’t find it?’</p>

<p>William took a drink.</p>

<p>‘Found the envelope. What they’ve done with the
paper beats me.’</p>

<p>He pulled out a long envelope and flung it down on
the table. Pullen picked it up and held it at arm’s length
to read the endorsement:</p>

<p>‘ “Our declaration of marriage.” Yes, that’s it.’</p>

<p>‘But it’s empty. I’d hardly put my hand on it before I
had to cut and run. When I looked inside I could have
done murder.’</p>

<p>‘Where’s the declaration? That’s what I want to
know.’</p>

<p>‘The girl’s got it, of course. The question is—where’s
the girl?’</p>

<p>‘Kimberley’s found her already. I went on to the
Foster’s. There’s nothing there, unless she had it on her.
She was out with Millar.’</p>

<p>‘That girl’s been here too long. She’s got to go. Once
she’s gone, it don’t matter if a hundred certificates turn
up. She’s got to go, and that’s an end of it.’</p>

<p>William finished his whisky.</p>

<p>‘Well, do her in yourself,’ he said.</p>

<p>‘It’s not my line.’</p>

<p>‘Why should it be mine?’</p>

<p>‘Well, it’s yours—isn’t it—Lenny Morrison?’</p>

<p>William’s face underwent a horrible change. The
stout Pullen recoiled.</p>

<p>‘Less of that! D’you hear? Call me that again, and
you’ll be sorry for it. As to the girl, she’s Egbert’s job,
isn’t she?’</p>

<p>‘He won’t. I said so all along. Grey Mask’s giving
you the job. It wants neat doing, and Egbert’s a
bungler if I ever saw one. Now, look here! There are to
be no more delays.’</p>

<p>The man at the door went on listening for another
ten minutes. Then he retraced his steps and vanished
into the darkness of the house.</p>

<p>Outside in the square Miss Silver waited patiently
for another hour. When the man came out, she
followed him.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXXVII</h1></div>

<p>Mrs Foster came down to breakfast on Thursday
morning in a state of nervous exasperation.</p>

<p>‘Really, Archie’s the limit! Yes, I know he’s my
cousin. Now, George, it’s no use your looking like
that—I never said he was your cousin or anybody
else’s cousin—I know he’s mine. But you needn’t try
and make out that all your relations are angel beings
who never do tiresome things, or land you in holes, or
shove strange girls on to you in the middle of a dinner-party.’</p>

<p>The broad face of George Foster emerged from
behind <span class='it'>The Times</span>.</p>

<p>‘Got a bit off the rails, haven’t you? Take a good
deep breath and start fresh.’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>George!</span>’</p>

<p>‘My dear child, what is it?’</p>

<p>‘I’m feeling simply too temperamental, and I could
<span class='it'>kill</span> Archie! First he dumps this girl on me in the very
middle of a dinner-party—’</p>

<p>‘My <span class='it'>good</span> Ernestine!’</p>

<p>‘It was the next thing to it, and my table would have
been utterly spoilt if I hadn’t been <span class='it'>firm</span> and <span class='it'>insisted</span> on
his removing her for the evening.’</p>

<p>George grinned.</p>

<p>‘I didn’t notice your having to insist very much.
Archie appeared only too anxious to oblige.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, of course he’s in love with her. It’s the only
excuse he’s got. George, if you go on rustling the paper
like that, I shall scream.’</p>

<p>‘What <span class='it'>is</span> the matter?’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Really</span>, George, you might have a little consideration,
after the shock of having burglars and a dinner-party
and Archie’s stray flapper all happening together. And
I want to know what brought Maud Silver here. She
asked for that girl.’</p>

<p>‘Who’s Maud Silver?’</p>

<p>Ernestine flushed scarlet and bit her lip.</p>

<p>‘You know perfectly well. She got back those odious
diamonds your mother gave me. And I must say I
<span class='it'>didn’t</span> think you’d refer to it now when I’m feeling as if I
simply couldn’t bear to hear myself <span class='it'>think</span>.’</p>

<p>George said nothing; he returned to the golfing
news.</p>

<p>‘I do really think you might <span class='it'>say</span> something, George!
You’re simply immersed in that wretched paper. I
believe you’d just go on reading it with a burglar in the
very room.’</p>

<p>‘What d’you want me to say? Hullo! Sandy Herd did
a jolly hot round yesterday.’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Really</span>, George!’</p>

<p>‘What’s the matter?’</p>

<p>‘If you talk to me about golf, I shall burst into tears.’</p>

<p>‘What d’you want me to talk about?’</p>

<p>‘The burglar, of course. What on earth did he come
for?’</p>

<p>‘Anything he could collect, I suppose.’</p>

<p>‘Then why did he pull out everything in the spare
room and not so much as <span class='it'>look</span> for my diamonds? Can
you tell me that?’</p>

<p>George could not. He lacked interest in the burglar.
Since nothing had been taken, why make a song and
dance about it? He reverted to golf.</p>

<p>Miss Greta Wilson was late for breakfast. When she
had finished, she accompanied a slightly calmer but
still fractious hostess on what George rudely described
as a ‘nose-flattening tour’.</p>

<p>‘Men never seem to think you want any clothes,’
said Mrs Foster. ‘George is perfectly hopeless. If I say
I want a new evening dress, he boasts, positively boasts,
of the fact that his evening clothes are pre-Ararat.’</p>

<p>Greta giggled.</p>

<p>‘I <span class='it'>love</span> looking at clothes,’ she said. ‘It’s the next best
thing to buying them—isn’t it?’</p>

<p>They looked at a great many. Ernestine bought a
hat, a jumper, and some silk stockings, which soothed
her a good deal. At twelve o’clock she remembered
with a shriek of dismay that she had promised, absolutely
promised, to ring up Renee Latouche and give her
Jim Maxwell’s address.</p>

<p>‘I looked it up on purpose. And then George interrupted
me and it went right out of my head. Come along
to Harridge’s and I’ll ring up from there.’</p>

<p>As they turned into the big stores, a car came out of
a narrow side street and drew up by the farther kerb.</p>

<p>Mrs Foster left Greta to wander about on the ground
floor whilst she rushed upstairs to telephone.</p>

<p>‘But I shall be at least twenty minutes, because it
always takes simply ages to get Renee to the telephone. I
know I shall have to talk to everyone in the house
before I get her. Maddening, I call it.’</p>

<p>Greta was quite pleased to be left. She looked at
bewilderingly lovely materials shining with all the
colours of the rainbow, and planned a dozen dresses.
She then wandered into a duller department which
displayed travelling rugs. She was not really interested
in travelling rugs, but she pinched a fold of one of them
to see how soft it was. As she did so, a curious thing
happened. A man’s hand and arm came into view for a
moment. She did not see the man, who was standing
behind her; she only saw his hand and arm. The hand
was broad and hairy, the sleeve of dark blue serge. The
hand laid a note on the fleecy brown travelling rug and
withdrew as suddenly as it had come.</p>

<p>Greta looked at the note with eyes as round as
saucers. The colour drained slowly away from her rosy
cheeks. She stared at the note and grew paler and paler.
The envelope was grey—not the common Silurian
grey, but a curious rough grey paper which was very
uncommon. The envelope was addressed in a bold
clear hand to Miss Margot Standing.</p>

<p>After a minute of terrified hesitation Margot took
up the envelope and tore it open.</p>

<p>When Ernestine Foster had finished her conversation
with Mrs Latouche, she remembered that she had
promised to bring home fruit for lunch. She bought a
pineapple; then decided that it would certainly be sour
and that George would inquire how much she had paid
for it. After hesitating for ten minutes between grapes
and Cape peaches she decided on bananas and apples,
and then set out in a hurry to look for Greta.</p>

<p>Greta was not in the silk department, where she had
left her, nor in the Bank, where they had agreed to
meet. She was not in Jewellery, Furs, Gloves, Lingerie,
Haberdashery, Glass, China or Gramophones.</p>

<p>Ernestine’s temper mounted rapidly. During the
morning Greta’s sympathetic attitude towards clothes
in general and Ernestine’s purchases in particular had
softened her a good deal towards her guest; but after
Mrs Foster had searched fifteen departments Greta
had a very serious relapse into being ‘that odious flapper
of Archie’s’. After half a dozen more departments,
Ernestine was not only angry, but just a little alarmed.
Of course the creature had got tired of waiting and gone
home—girls of that age never have any manners. But—</p>

<p>She questioned the commissionaire at every door.
The man at the door by which she and Greta had
entered the stores remembered the young lady very well.
He knew Mrs Foster by sight, and he remembered her
coming in with a young lady. He remembered more
than that; he remembered the young lady coming out
about ten minutes later. Oh yes, he was quite sure it
was the same young lady—she came out, and she got
into a car that was waiting at the other side of the
street.</p>

<p>‘Was she alone?’</p>

<p>‘Oh yes, madam, quite alone. There was a gentleman
in the car.’</p>

<p>‘What sort of gentleman?’</p>

<p>‘I couldn’t say, madam. It was a closed car with a
chauffeur. The chauffeur went into the stores and
came out again a minute or two before the young lady.’</p>

<p>‘What kind of a car was it?’</p>

<p>‘It was a Daimler, madam.’</p>

<p>Ernestine went home very angry indeed. She rang
up her cousin, Archie Millar, and was told he had gone
out for lunch. She left an urgent message, and upbraided
George all through lunch for the total lack of
courtesy and consideration displayed by his sex.</p>

<p>‘If Archie wanted to take the girl out to lunch, why
didn’t he say so? Heaven knows where he raised the car
from. Archie with a Daimler and a chauffeur, if you
please! And isn’t it just like a man to dump a girl on me
one minute, and then positively abduct her about five
minutes before lunch and without saying a single word?
I don’t suppose he’ll go near his office again till
three o’clock. Then he’ll shoot the girl back here and
expect me to look after her. Would anyone but a man
be so exasperating?’</p>

<p>At half-past two Archie rang up.</p>

<p>‘Hello, Ernestine!’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Really</span>, Archie, you’re the limit!’</p>

<p>‘My dear girl, why so peeved? If you’re not careful,
you’ll be gettin’ wrinkles in the voice. What price voice
massage?’</p>

<p>‘I must say I think you might have let me know you
were going to carry the girl off like that. I might have
imagined something had happened to her.’</p>

<p>‘I say—what’s all this?’</p>

<p>‘I think you might just have told me.’</p>

<p>‘Told you what?’</p>

<p>‘Of course George takes your part. He would—men
always do.’</p>

<p>‘What have I done?’</p>

<p>‘If you were going to take her out to lunch—and I
suppose you arranged it last night—why on earth
couldn’t she have said so instead of leaving me stranded
at Harridge’s?’</p>

<p>‘Ernestine, what are you talkin’ about? Where’s
Greta?’</p>

<p>‘I’m sure I don’t know. Hasn’t she been lunching
with you?’</p>

<p>‘No, she hasn’t. I say, suppose you tell me what’s
been happenin’?’</p>

<p>‘You <span class='it'>didn’t</span> fetch her from Harridge’s?’</p>

<p>‘No, of course I didn’t.’</p>

<p>‘Then who did?’</p>

<p>‘Look here, tell me what happened.’</p>

<p>‘I went upstairs to telephone to Renee Latouche,
because I’d promised her Jim Maxwell’s address, and
George was so exasperating that I forgot all about it till
Greta and I were passing Harridge’s.’</p>

<p>‘Well?’</p>

<p>‘It took me ages to get Renee—it always does. And
when I’d finished, I couldn’t find Greta anywhere. I
went into every department. D’you know, they’ve got
departments for things I’ve never even heard of. I went
everywhere, and she simply wasn’t there. And then I
asked the commissionaires. And one of them had seen
us go in, and he said he’d seen Greta come out only
about ten minutes afterwards. He said she got into a
Daimler that was waiting and went off. And of course I
thought it was you.’</p>

<p>‘A Daimler!’</p>

<p>‘With a chauffeur. The commissionaire said there
was a man inside. Wasn’t it you?’</p>

<p>‘No, it wasn’t. I haven’t seen her since last night.’</p>

<p>Ernestine hardly knew Archie’s voice.</p>

<p>‘Then who was it?’</p>

<p>‘What time did all this happen?’</p>

<p>‘Well, it was about twelve when I remembered
about telephoning to Renee, and the commissionaire
said Greta came out about ten minutes after we went
in, so—’</p>

<p>‘Ernestine! I told you not to let her go about alone!’</p>

<p>Ernestine became sharply offended.</p>

<p>‘Well, if you call that letting her go about alone!’</p>

<p>Archie rang off.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXXVIII</h1></div>

<p>Charles spent the afternoon going through a stack of
papers at Thornhill Square. It was about five o’clock
when he finished with them and went out by the garden
way. It was dusk but not yet dark. The alley-way was
much darker than the garden.</p>

<p>When he had shut and locked the door in the wall,
he stood for a moment, and then turned to the right
instead of to the left. The impulse which made him do
this was so slight and undefined that it took no definite
shape in his mind. He turned to the right instead of to
the left and walked slowly along the alley-way.</p>

<p>On his right were the other gardens of Thornhill
Square, on his left the smaller, narrower gardens of
George Street. On both sides, brick walls broken at
intervals by wooden doors. The slope of the ground hid
all but the top storeys of the houses on the right; but the
George Street houses showed back windows lighted and
curtained.</p>

<p>Charles had walked a dozen yards or so before it
occurred to him that it was a sentimental desire to look
at the Pelhams’ house which had brought him out of his
way. That he might have looked at it any day since his
return was true; and it was equally true that he had
never felt impelled to do so. He discovered the reason
now. It was the empty house that drew him, because,
empty, it held a thousand memories.</p>

<p>He walked past the bend in the alley and stood
where he had often stood waiting for Margaret to slip
through the garden door. The house was larger than
the others in the street—larger, and older by a hundred
years; a square Georgian house with modern additions.
The study was an addition, and a hideous one. It jutted
out, breaking the square lines, and from it a frightful
iron stair descended to the garden. From the alley you
could see the French window and the looped spirals of
the stair.</p>

<p>Charles had stood a hundred times where he was
standing now and watched, for the window to open. He
watched now with a definite feeling of what a fool he
was to stare at an empty house and people it with
memories. The dusk was darkening into night; the
house was just a black square. He could no longer
discern either window or stair, when suddenly the
window sprang into view, a brilliant oblong crossed
with black lines. It showed for a moment, and then a
man pulled down the blind.</p>

<p>The man was Freddy Pelham; and the sight of
Freddy sent all those romantic memories back into the
past to which they belonged; their place was taken by
the practical consideration that here was a most
excellent opportunity of tackling Freddy about the
whole stupid Grey Mask imbroglio.</p>

<p>Charles tried the garden door, found it open, and
walked briskly up the garden path. The iron stair was
wet and slippery under foot, the hand-rail coldly
insecure—a beastly contraption like seaside lodgings. He
rapped on the window, and could have laughed at
Freddy Pelham’s scared face when he raised the blind
and peered into the darkness—‘Probably thinks it’s one
of Grey Mask’s little lot.’</p>

<p>Freddy’s relief at recognizing Charles Moray was
touching.</p>

<p>‘I’m all alone in the house, you see. And I shouldn’t
be much use if it came to a rough-and-tumble with a
burglar—what? Now there was Hugo Byrne—you
remember Hugo—no, he was before your time—his
mother was Edith Peace, and his sister married one of
the Dunlop Murrays—no relation of yours of course.
Let me see, what was I going to tell you? Oh yes—burglars.
Well, poor old Hugo got up in the middle of
the night and thought he heard a burglar and—let
me see, did I tell you?—he’d got his wife’s uncle
down from Scotland staying with them—he married
Josephine Campbell, you know. No, no, not Josephine—she
was the dark one—Elizabeth Campbell. Yes, I’m
sure it was Elizabeth, because she had red hair, and
we used to call her Red Liz—behind her back, you
know, behind her back. And—where was I? Oh yes—poor
old Hugo and the burglar. Of course it turned out
to be old Robert Campbell. And he never left them a
penny. Rather too bad—what?’</p>

<p>The study was in its usual condition of disorder.
How Freddy ever found anything in it was a mystery.
He appeared to have been making some slight attempt
to clear things up.</p>

<p>‘Frightful mess—what? Sit down—sit down. Here,
put those photograph albums on the floor. No—perhaps
better leave those. This chair now—we can
shift these papers. Nothing of importance there—what?
Only bills—nothing to break one’s heart over, if some
of them did get lost—what?’</p>

<p>He tilted a confused mass of papers on to the floor.</p>

<p>‘Thanks, I won’t sit,’ said Charles. ‘I’m afraid I’m
interrupting you. Fact is I wanted to ask you about
something, and when I saw the light I thought I’d come
up and get it over.’</p>

<p>‘Well, what can I do for you? I don’t suppose I shall
do much more here anyway. I thought I’d try and clear
up some of this mess; but I’m off tomorrow, and there’s
too much of it—I can’t tackle it. Margaret’s coming up
to say goodbye. I telephoned to her place to let her
know I’d be here, and she’ll come along as soon as she
gets off. That’s why the garden door’s open—she’ll
come along that way. Well, well, I shall be glad when
I’m off. I don’t like saying goodbye—that’s a fact.
Stupid of me—isn’t it?’</p>

<p>He was fidgeting with the litter on the table. There
was something pathetic about the aimless movements
and the deprecating glances which accompanied them.</p>

<p>Charles felt very sorry for him. He said,</p>

<p>‘Oh, I don’t know,’ and then, ‘It was about Margaret
I wanted to speak to you.’</p>

<p>Freddy brightened into curiosity.</p>

<p>‘About Margaret—what? You don’t mean to say—no,
no, of course not—much better let bygones be
bygones. I remember Tommy Hadow now—he got
engaged to the second Jenkins girl—I can’t for the life
of me remember her name—something short. Dot?
No. May? No, it wasn’t May.’</p>

<p>‘It’s nothing of that sort,’ said Charles firmly.</p>

<p>‘Well, well, I’m sorry—in a way, I’m sorry. But all
the same I don’t know that it does to bring these things
on again. It didn’t answer in Tommy’s case. Separated
in a year—and that’s worse than a broken engagement.
Gwendoline! That was the girl’s name—Gwendoline
Jenkins! And her sister married Sam Fortescue.’</p>

<p>‘No, it’s nothing of that sort,’ said Charles. He
thought Freddy vaguer than ever, and did not feel the
slightest interest in the Jenkins family. ‘Look here,
Freddy, I really do want to talk to you. Naturally
you’ve got Margaret’s interests very much at heart, and
I thought perhaps if we put our heads together, we
could do something to help her out of her present false
position.’</p>

<p>It was incredibly difficult. The words he was using
seemed to him of a stilted ineptitude, a sort of cross
between the Meanderings of Monty and the platitudes
of the Reverend Mr Barlow.</p>

<p>Freddy looked across the table at him with a curious
fluttered expression.</p>

<p>‘Charles—you distress me. I don’t think I understand.
What’s all this about a false position?’ He did
not say, ‘And what has this got to do with you?’ but
there was just a hint of it in his manner.</p>

<p>Charles plunged on:</p>

<p>‘Margaret is certainly in a false position. And look
here, Freddy, you’re going abroad—your plans are
apparently very uncertain—you may be away for
years—anything may happen. I think you’ll agree that
Margaret ought not to be left—’ He hesitated for a
word, and finally produced ‘involved’.</p>

<p>Freddy rumpled his mouse-coloured hair.</p>

<p>‘My dear boy, you distress me very much. Has
Margaret been getting into debt? I’ve offered her an
allowance, and she won’t take it. I really don’t know
why.’</p>

<p>‘I wasn’t talking about debts.’</p>

<p>‘But you said “involved”.’</p>

<p>‘I didn’t mean debt. I think you must know what I
mean—’ he looked away for a minute—‘in fact you do
know. I want you to understand that I know too.’ He
paused, and added, ‘Margaret has told me why she
broke off her engagement.’</p>

<p>He looked back at Freddy and saw a blank, white
face, small eyes peering, hands shaking. ‘Good Lord,
what a blue funk he’s in!’ Rather horrible to see poor
little Freddy like that—horrible to see anyone in such a
ghastly funk. Why, the forehead under the mouse-coloured
hair was streaming wet.</p>

<p>Freddy put up one of those shaking hands and
pushed the damp hair back.</p>

<p>‘What did she tell you?’</p>

<p>Charles repeated what Margaret had told him.</p>

<p>‘She said you’d slipped into it when you were a boy.
She said the affair was political—but of course you
won’t expect me to believe that. I don’t say you didn’t
believe it when you were seventeen. I don’t know anything
about that, and it doesn’t matter. But you know
as well as I do now that this Grey Mask business is just
a big criminal organization run for gain.’</p>

<p>Freddy put his head in his hands. The white wet face
was hidden, but Charles felt that the terrified eyes still
peered at him through the shaking fingers. A little contempt
flavoured his pity. No wonder Margaret had had
to bear the brunt if this was a sample of how Freddy
went to bits in an emergency.</p>

<p>‘Look here, Freddy,’ he said. Then, with sudden
impatience. ‘For heaven’s sake, man, pull yourself
together! Don’t slump like that.’</p>

<p>An inarticulate sound, half-sob, half-protest, came
from behind Freddy’s hands.</p>

<p>Charles walked up and down.</p>

<p>‘I don’t want to reproach you—I’m not going to
reproach you; but you must see that it’s up to you to try
and get Margaret out of the mess you got her into. You
can’t just go off abroad and leave her to it.’</p>

<p>Another sound. Charles made nothing of it.</p>

<p>‘Of course she was an absolute fool to sign anything.
She told me she put her name to two statements, both
highly damaging. Those statements must be got back.
That’s really what I’ve come to talk to you about.
When people are on the wrong side of the law like this
Grey Mask crowd, there must be ways of doing a deal
with them. That’s where you come in. You know
them—you’re in touch with them—you’re in a position
to—’</p>

<p>Freddy dropped his hands.</p>

<p>‘You don’t understand. I can’t do anything.’</p>

<p>‘Something’s <span class='it'>got</span> to be done.’</p>

<p>Freddy leaned back, his hands on his knees, his whole
figure limp.</p>

<p>‘You don’t know them. You must forgive me—Charles,
it was such a shock—to find that you had
any knowledge of—’ He spoke in a series of jerks, and
at the end of each short sentence his voice was almost
gone.</p>

<p>‘I suppose it was. I want you to understand my
position. I’m concerned for two people. Margaret’s one
of them, and Greta Wilson is the other. I’m very deeply
concerned for Greta, because I believe she is in a very
dangerous position; and I’m so placed that I can’t do
what I ought to do to protect Greta without running
the risk of finding that Margaret is involved.’</p>

<p>‘What do you mean?’ said Freddy Pelham.</p>

<p>‘It’s obvious, isn’t it? Unless we can get back those
two statements which you got Margaret to sign, I can’t
put Greta under police protection. You heard her story
about being followed by a strange car. I believe she was
within an ace of being carried off then, just as I believe
she was within an ace of slipping to her death under the
bus last night. You know she was pushed. Do you know
who pushed her?’</p>

<p>Freddy stiffened; everything about him seemed to go
rigid. The effect was one of extreme terror, of a
creature in a trap with every muscle tense—waiting.</p>

<p>Charles looked at him with something like horror.</p>

<p>‘Freddy! For heaven’s sake, don’t say you knew!’</p>

<p>Freddy shook his head. The tension relaxed. He said
faintly,</p>

<p>‘It was a shock’; and then, ‘she slipped.’</p>

<p>‘She slipped because she was pushed. I mean to
know who pushed her. I mean to bring the whole
damned crowd to justice. And I want you to help me.
For Margaret’s sake—for your own sake—I want you
to help me. I don’t ask you to appear in the matter at
all. You can go off abroad tomorrow and be out of it
all. If you’re wise, you’ll keep out of it. I want to know
who’s got those statements of Margaret’s.’</p>

<p>‘Grey Mask,’ said Freddy with a shudder.</p>

<p>‘Who is Grey Mask?’</p>

<p>Freddy shuddered again.</p>

<p>‘No—one—knows.’</p>

<p>‘Don’t you know?’</p>

<p>Again that curious rigidity, that fixed stare of fear.</p>

<p>‘Freddy, pull yourself together! I’m not asking for
anything that will compromise you—I only want your
help for Margaret. I can’t work in the dark. Give me a
hint of whom to approach.’</p>

<p>‘I can’t tell you anything.’</p>

<p>‘Look here, Freddy, you’re forcing my hand. If you
don’t help—if you <span class='it'>won’t</span> help me, I shall have to take
my own way. I shall have to take it more or less in the
dark. Margaret may suffer—you yourself may suffer.
Don’t you see that the minute I move I may pull the
whole thing down? If you’ll help me, I believe we can
get Margaret out, and I swear I’ll do my best for you.
But if I have to go on without knowing where I am, it
may very easily mean the worst kind of smash.’</p>

<p>Freddy sat silent.</p>

<p>‘You see you force my hand. I can’t delay any
longer. I can go to the police and tell them what I
know or—’ he spoke very slowly and deliberately—‘I
can go to Pullen and try to do a deal with him.’</p>

<p>Freddy Pelham started forward. His left hand
gripped the table edge; his right fell fumbling on the
handle of a drawer.</p>

<p>‘Who’s—Pullen?’</p>

<p>Charles laughed angrily.</p>

<p>‘Don’t you know? I think you do. Well? Are you
going to help me? Or am I to try Pullen or—Lenny
Morrison?’</p>

<p>Freddy’s mouth opened, but for a moment no sound
came. Then in a whisper, he began to say ‘Go’; and
having brought the word out once, it seemed as if he
could not stop saying it:</p>

<p>‘Go—go—go—’</p>

<p>Charles walked to the door. The scene had become
as useless as it was painful. He walked to the door, and
with his hand already on the knob, he turned.</p>

<p>He saw the untidy littered room. He saw the untidy
littered table. And he saw Freddy Pelham with an
automatic in his hand. He saw Freddy’s face, different,
quite hard, quite cool. He saw Freddy’s eyes, the eyes
of a stranger. And he saw all these things in a flashing
moment that could not be counted as time. It had the
instantaneous character of thought. And before the
next second followed, two things happened simultaneously—Freddy
Pelham fired, and Charles ducked.
He heard the shot as a muffled sound that passed into
the ringing of a thousand bells. He plunged down into
darkness.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XXXIX</h1></div>

<p>Archie Millar had been spending the most horrible
afternoon of his life. He went first to Harridge’s, where
he questioned the commissionaire without adding anything
to what Mrs Foster had already told him. He
then rang up The Luxe, only to discover that Charles
Moray was not in the hotel.</p>

<p>He found Miss Silver’s office closed, and again rang
up The Luxe. Still no Charles.</p>

<p>After this he rushed into Sauterelle’s and demanded
Margaret Langton. Miss Langton had taken a selection
of hats to a customer on the other side of London. On
the plea of very urgent family affairs Archie extracted
the customer’s address and proceeded there. Margaret
had left ten minutes before.</p>

<p>He rang up The Luxe again from a public call-office
and returned to Sauterelle’s. Margaret had just come
in. He had to wait whilst she was fetched. She found a
very distracted young man.</p>

<p>‘Margaret, she’s gone!’</p>

<p>Margaret did not need to ask who. A most sickening
feeling of fear drove the faint colour from her cheeks.</p>

<p>‘What has happened?’</p>

<p>‘She’s disappeared. Ernestine had no business to
leave her.’ He poured out the commissionaire’s story.
‘I’m nearly off my head. Charles told me about the
bus. They’ve carried her off. Heaven knows why she
went with him, but she’s such a darlin’ little innocent,
she’d never think—Margaret, what <span class='it'>are</span> we to do?’</p>

<p>‘You must go to the police.’ Her voice was quite
steady.</p>

<p>‘Charles said—Look here, I’ll have another shot at
Miss Silver first.’</p>

<p>‘I’ve heard of her. But I don’t see—’</p>

<p>‘Charles was seein’ her. She knows all about everythin’.
He told me last night. I wish to heaven I could get
hold of Charles. It’s past five—he may have come in. I’ll
go and have another shot.’</p>

<p>‘Wait,’ said Margaret. ‘Wait a minute. I—there’s
something I can do. I get off at six. There’s someone I
can go and see. I don’t know that it’s much good, but—it
might be. Where shall I find you?’</p>

<p>‘Better telephone to Ernestine. I’ll ring up at
intervals and find out if there’s any message. I can’t tell
where I shall be.’</p>

<p>He went off once again, tried to get Charles, and,
failing, asked without hope for Maud Silver’s number.
To his overwhelming relief he got it, heard a most
welcome click, and then Miss Silver’s voice saying
‘Hullo!’</p>

<p>‘Miss Silver, is that you?’</p>

<p>‘Speaking.’</p>

<p>‘It’s Archie Millar. I’ve met you at my cousin’s.
Charles Moray told me—’</p>

<p>‘Quite so, Mr Millar. I may say I’ve been expecting
you.’</p>

<p>‘I came round, and your office was shut up.’</p>

<p>‘Quite so—I had to go out. You wish for news of Miss
Wilson?’</p>

<p>‘Miss Silver, d’you know where she is?’</p>

<p>‘I know where I think you may have news of her.
Will you take down the address? Number ten, Grange
Square.’</p>

<p>‘But I say, Miss Silver, that’s where—I say, you
know what I mean—isn’t that—’</p>

<p>Miss Silver rang off.</p>

<p>Quarter of an hour later he was ringing the doorbell
of No. 10. The door was opened by a plain, neat
young woman in cap and apron. Of butler or footman
there was no sign. Up to this very moment it had not
occurred to Archie that he had no idea for whom he
was going to ask; his idea had been to get to the house,
to get news of Greta, to—well, to get to the house.</p>

<p>He looked at the plain young woman, and felt like a
fool.</p>

<p>‘Mr Millar?’ said the maid.</p>

<p>Archie walked into the hall and followed dumbly up
a marble stair. On the first floor, a long corridor with
Persian runners; a dim, soft light; an air of hushed
expectancy.</p>

<p>Archie stopped being harassed and torn by doubts
and fears. An overpowering sensation of having
walked straight into a story from the Arabian Nights
removed all other feelings. He breathed the air of
hushed expectancy and found it pleasant.</p>

<p>The maid opened a door.</p>

<p>‘Mr Millar,’ she said.</p>

<p>Archie passed into the room and heard the door close
behind him.</p>

<p>The room was large and solemn; it had the ordered
richness of a shrine. The Persian rugs upon the floor
were dim and soft and old. The light came from crystal
sconces set on the panelled walls.</p>

<p>Archie looked down the room and beheld Miss
Margot Standing curled up on a purple couch. She
wore a white frock and a pleased expression. She was
eating chocolates.</p>

<p>He had no very clear idea of how he got across the
room. He found himself with his arm around Margot’s
waist; he had an impression that he had just kissed her,
and that she did not seem to mind; he was saying things
like ‘My blessed little darlin’’; and she was staring at
him with round, surprised blue eyes.</p>

<p>‘Archie! How f-funny you are!’</p>

<p>Archie kissed a sticky little hand and held it to his
cheek.</p>

<p>‘My blessed child! Darlin’, where <span class='it'>have</span> you been?
I’ve been nearly off my head about you.’</p>

<p>Margot took her hand away and sucked the stickiest
finger. She looked through her black lashes at Archie
and giggled.</p>

<p>‘Did you think I was lost?’</p>

<p>Archie nodded.</p>

<p>‘I said you would—I said you and Charles would
both think I was lost. Were you in a frightful state? Is
Charles nearly off his head too? I do <span class='it'>hope</span> he is! It’s
frightfully exciting to have people in a frightful state
about you.’</p>

<p>Archie began to pull himself together.</p>

<p>‘You leave Charles alone—he’s not in on this scene.
You fix your mind on me. What d’you mean by runnin’
away like that? I haven’t had time to look in the glass,
but I shouldn’t be a bit surprised if my hair hadn’t been
doin’ the turnin’ white in a single night stunt.’</p>

<p>Margot giggled.</p>

<p>‘It hasn’t.’ She pushed the chocolates towards him.
‘Have a choc. That’s a most frightfully good sort, only
it comes off creamy on your fingers. I’m sticky all over
from mine. <span class='it'>Do</span> have one.’</p>

<p>Archie shook his head.</p>

<p>‘I only eat that sort in my bath.’</p>

<p>‘Tell me about Charles. Is he looking for me?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know.’</p>

<p>‘Doesn’t he know I’m <span class='it'>lost</span>?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t suppose he does.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, but I want him to—I want him to be frightfully
upset, and then frightfully pleased to find me, just like
you were. You <span class='it'>were</span> pleased to find me—weren’t you?’</p>

<p>She put her face up to his.</p>

<p>Archie kissed her again, this time quite deliberately.
Margot returned his kiss with engaging frankness.
Then she sat back. Neither of them heard a door open
and close again.</p>

<p>‘Are you proposing to me? Because you haven’t
done it at all properly if you are. You ought to have
<span class='it'>said</span> things first, and not kissed me till I said “Yes”.’
Her mouth quivered a little. ‘It’s my first proposal, and
I did want it to be a proper one. I don’t count Egbert.’
Archie took both her hands—they were still rather
sticky. He kissed them gently.</p>

<p>‘My darlin’ child, I’d propose to you from here till
the end of next week if it was the slightest good. I love
you quite a lot, you know.’</p>

<p>‘That’s better,’ said Margot. Then her mouth
quivered a little more. ‘Why isn’t it any good? Aren’t
you going to? Why aren’t you?’</p>

<p>‘Because you’re not old enough,’ said Archie.
‘You’re just a blessed baby, and I should be a perfect
brute if I asked you to marry me.’</p>

<p>Margot’s bright round eyes filled with angry tears.
She pulled her hands away with a jerk.</p>

<p>‘Why, I’m eighteen! Lots of people are <span class='it'>married</span> by
the time they’re eighteen. One of the girls at school had
a sister who was engaged six times before she was
eighteen.’ She began to cry. ‘I think it’s <span class='it'>frightfully</span> horrid
of you. And you’ve spoilt my first proposal. And—and—you
needn’t think I wanted you to propose to me. And
you needn’t think I’d have said “yes”. And you needn’t
think I like you the least little bit, because I <span class='it'>don’t</span>!’</p>

<p>‘Look here, darlin’—’</p>

<p>‘I think you’re <span class='it'>frightfully</span> horrid!’ said Margot with
a sob. Then suddenly she caught him by the hand. ‘You
<span class='it'>did</span> say you loved me, didn’t you?’</p>

<p>‘I oughtn’t to have said it.’</p>

<p>Margot pinched him very hard.</p>

<p>‘I <span class='it'>hate</span> you when you talk like that. You kissed me,
and you <span class='it'>did</span> say you loved me—you <span class='it'>know</span> you did.
And then you go and spoil everything by saying I’m not
old enough.’ She made a snuggling movement towards
him. ‘Archie—<span class='it'>darling</span>—<span class='it'>do</span> propose to me properly. I
might say “yes” if you ask me frightfully nicely.’ Then
she looked up and gave a little scream.</p>

<p>Archie turned round.</p>

<p>A man with thick grey hair and rather hard features
was leaning on the end of the sofa. His expression was
one of amusement.</p>

<p>Archie sprang up. He stared at the man, and his jaw
dropped. A dozen different photographs of this man
had frowned or smiled in just this sarcastic manner
from the pages of every illustrated paper in London.
The shock of recognition was so great that he forgot
everything else.</p>

<p>The man spoke. There was a suspicion of a northern
burr in his voice.</p>

<p>‘How do you do, Mr Millar? I must introduce
myself. My name is Edward Standing.’</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XL</h1></div>

<p>Archie felt a tug at his sleeve. Margot had jumped up,
scattering her chocolates. She hung on his arm, laughing
and excited.</p>

<p>‘Archie, you didn’t guess, did you? Papa, I didn’t
tell him. I wanted to frightfully, but I didn’t. So you see
I <span class='it'>can</span> keep a promise. I didn’t tell him a single word—did
I, Archie? Archie, isn’t it <span class='it'>frightfully</span> exciting about
Papa not being drowned? Papa, may I tell him <span class='it'>all</span>
about it now? Because we’re very nearly engaged—aren’t
we, Archie? Papa, he won’t propose to me
because he says I’m not old enough. Archie, if <span class='it'>Papa</span>
says I’m old enough, will you do it properly? Papa—’</p>

<p>Mr Standing put a hand on her shoulder.</p>

<p>‘I want to talk to Mr Millar. Run away and play.’</p>

<p>Margot pouted, then brightened.</p>

<p>‘My hands are a bit sticky. If I go and wash them,
will that be long enough?’</p>

<p>Mr Standing gave her a push towards the door.</p>

<p>‘I’ll call you when I’m ready.’</p>

<p>When she had gone, he turned a cool, hard gaze upon
Archie.</p>

<p>‘So you think Margot’s too young to be engaged?’</p>

<p>The back of Archie’s neck burned.</p>

<p>‘I don’t quite know when you came in, sir.’</p>

<p>‘Well, I heard you tell her she was too young. I
agree with you. We’ll leave it at that. You didn’t, I take
it, expect to find me here.’</p>

<p>‘I didn’t expect to find Margot. I came because Miss
Silver told me to come.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, I know all about that. I have met Miss Silver.
She tells me I am very considerably indebted both to
you and to Mr Charles Moray. I am very glad to have
the opportunity of thanking you and of explaining
some of the rather extraordinary things that have been
happening. Sit down, Mr Millar.’</p>

<p>Archie sat down. He was irresistibly reminded of
interviews, now happily remote, with his headmaster;
there was the same feeling of unpreparedness.</p>

<p>Mr Standing laughed suddenly. The atmosphere
changed.</p>

<p>‘We’re being a bit solemn, aren’t we? That’s my
fault, I’m afraid. I must have been a bit of a shock to
you. Now Margot took me with perfect calm—she
merely remarked. “Oh, Papa, you’re <span class='it'>not</span> drowned!
How frightfully nice!” and at once proceeded to pour
out a full account of some very curious adventures. Well,
I’m beginning at the end of the story. I must go back a
bit.’</p>

<p>Mr Standing sat forward in his chair.</p>

<p>‘I want to begin by saying something about all this
rubbish that has appeared in the papers on the subject
of my daughter’s legitimacy. I am sending a statement
to the Press tomorrow. I married as a young man, and
I am now a widower. My marriage did not take place in
England. Margot is my legitimate daughter. I had <span class='it'>not</span>
failed to provide for her future. I made my will fifteen
years ago. The document was in the hands of my
solicitor, Mr Hale senior. It was destroyed after his
father’s death, and after my supposed death, by Mr
James Hale.’</p>

<p>‘He <span class='it'>was</span> in it then! Do you know, sir, it was Margot
who wouldn’t let us go to him—and a jolly good thing
we didn’t. Charles Moray was tellin’ me all about it last
night.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, James Hale was in it. And so, I regret to say,
was my nephew Egbert. Well, that disposes of the will.
About a year ago I became aware of the existence of a
criminal conspiracy directed by a singularly cunning
and able rascal. Certain things came to my knowledge;
but I hadn’t a shred of evidence against anybody.
Then, about two months ago, my man Jaffray came to
me with a most extraordinary story. He was a good
fellow whom I used as a sort of steward-cum-valet on
my yacht. He’d been left stone deaf after shell-shock.
Well, a queer thing happened—he got his hearing
back. He said it came quite suddenly one day when he
was crossing Hammersmith Broadway. He said one
minute everything was quiet, and the next the roar of
the traffic nearly knocked him down. Well, he didn’t
tell anyone except me. He said he wasn’t sure it would
last. And then he had another reason. He went down to
the yacht to get ready for my cruise, and he overheard
a conversation between the understeward and my
butler, Pullen. It was an appalling conversation. He
came off and told me about it. Pullen and this man
Ward were discussing the best way of murdering me—that’s
what it amounted to. Well, I thought things out,
and I made up my mind to give them a helping hand.
D’you see?’</p>

<p>‘Well, I don’t exactly.’</p>

<p>‘I might have called in the police, and I suppose I
could have got Pullen and Ward. But I wanted the
others. Most particularly, I wanted the man who was
running the show, Grey Mask. I thought I’d let them
think their plan had succeeded, and see if they didn’t
come out into the open a bit. So I told Jaffray to see if
he couldn’t get taken on as second murderer. He did it
very well—started by grumbling to Ward about his
wages and one thing and another, got up some good
red-hot Communist stuff, and let it off at discreet
intervals. In the end Ward told him the whole thing.
But Ward only knew Pullen—and he didn’t know him
as Pullen or as my butler. He didn’t know any of the
others. Well, Jaffray and I fixed up a very nice high-class
assassination. We lay off Majorca, and I hired a
boat to hang round and pick me up after Jaffray had
pushed me overboard on a dark, windy night, I’m a
first-class swimmer, and I had a life-belt in case of
accidents. It came off nicely enough. I went over to
Paris and waited for news. Jaffray went back to London.
And then the fun began. They came out into the open
just as I hoped they would. James Hale gave himself
away by saying there was no will—he had handled it in
my presence only a week before I sailed. My nephew
Egbert also knew that there was a will—I had
acquainted him with the terms of it no farther back than
last August. He and Hale trumped up a forged letter
from me alluding to Margot being illegitimate. They
staged the affair so that one of Hale’s clerks, a perfectly
innocent young fellow, found the letter. It would all
have been very clever if I had really been dead. What I
want to say to you is this, I never dreamt of any risk for
Margot—it didn’t occur to me that Hale would get her
back from Switzerland. As soon as Jaffray wrote and
told me she was here alone, I came across. By the time
I arrived she had disappeared. It was Jaffray who
discovered her whereabouts. I decided that she was
safe with Miss Langton. I was extremely anxious not to
be recognized, as I had not yet got the evidence that I
needed against Pullen and another man, the footman
called William Cole. I was also extremely anxious to
find out who was really running the show. On Tuesday,
however, I made up my mind to fetch Margot away. I
went with Jaffray and the car to fetch her. But she took
fright. I had told Jaffray to tell her I was there. He said
“Mr Standing”, and she jumped to the conclusion that
it was her cousin Egbert who was trying to carry her off.
Not unnaturally, she ran away.’</p>

<p>‘Yes, she told me. So that was it?’</p>

<p>Mr Standing nodded.</p>

<p>‘As you know, you upset my plans by taking her to a
new address next day. It took me all day to find her.
This morning Jaffray and I followed her in the car, and
I sent Jaffray into Harridge’s with a note for her. She
came at once, and I brought her here. A conversation
which I myself overheard last night between Pullen and
William Cole convinced me that I could not risk waiting
any longer. The two men were arrested this morning.
James Hale, I am sorry to say, got out of the
country. My nephew has thrown himself upon my
mercy. I believe him to be a mere tool. The man I
want—the man who’s at the back of everything, the
cold-blooded ruffian who gave orders to have my
daughter “removed”, in other words murdered—Millar,
I’m no nearer knowing who he really is than I
was when I began.’</p>

<p>‘He isn’t Hale?’</p>

<p>‘No, he’s not Hale—though I believe that Hale
knows who he is. I don’t believe any of the others do,
and—Hale’s out of the country.’</p>

<p>The door opened and Margot came in with a
doubtful air.</p>

<p>‘You didn’t call—but you’ve been simply <span class='it'>ages</span>.’</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XLI</h1></div>

<p>Charles came back to feelings of extreme discomfort.
He opened his eyes and saw light coming down from
above. There was something dark on either side of him;
the light came down between two dark walls. The right
side of his head felt just as it had felt when he was nine
years old and had run into the corner of the dining-room
cupboard. He blinked at the light and tried to
move. He couldn’t.</p>

<p>He had an instant of intense fear, and then realized
with relief that the reason he couldn’t move was that his
hands and feet were tied. At the same moment a horrible
choking feeling was explained by the presence of a gag.</p>

<p>He was lying on his back with his knees drawn up. A
thick wad of something filled his mouth. He stared up
at the light, and his head began to clear. The dark wall
on the right was the study wall; the dark wall on the left
was the back of Freddy Pelham’s sofa. He was lying on
the ground between the sofa and the wall with his
hands tied in front of him and his ankles strapped
together. There was a most abominable gag in his
mouth.</p>

<p>These things, which belonged to the immediate
moment, presented themselves with increasing definiteness.
What on earth had happened? His unconsciousness
hung like a black curtain between him and the
events which had preceded it. He could hear Freddy
Pelham moving in the room. He crossed the floor and
threw back the lid of a box. Then he crossed the floor
again. Now he moved a chair, and there was a rustling
of papers.</p>

<p>Charles knew that it was Freddy who was moving to
and fro in the room. He could remember coming up the
iron stair from the garden and seeing Freddy pull the
blind aside and open the door to let him in. What on
earth had happened after that? Something about
Margaret. Something about Grey Mask. Quite suddenly
he had a swift, unnaturally brilliant picture of the
study as it looked from the door—not the door into the
garden, but the other door that led out on to the staircase.
He saw the room, and he saw Freddy Pelham with
an automatic in his hand and cool, cold murder in his
eyes. He saw Freddy’s finger move. That was the
picture, everything in it very hard and bright and clear.
It kept coming and going; and as it came and went, he
began to remember.</p>

<p>He had got as far as the door; he had turned; he had
seen Freddy; he had ducked, and Freddy had fired.
The shot must have grazed the right side of his head
and knocked him out. Freddy had trussed him up and
shoved him away behind the sofa. He had done this
because Margaret was coming. At this point his mind
became quite clear. He heard Freddy Pelham get up
and come towards him. The sofa was moved some
inches. Freddy leaned over the back of it and looked
down at him.</p>

<p>Freddy? Freddy Pelham? Charles stared at a
stranger with Freddy Pelham’s features and Freddy
Pelham’s clothes. This was not the Freddy whom he or
anyone else had known—the foolish, amiable Freddy
whom one laughed at and was fond of, and who bored
one so terribly with his reminiscences. Hard merciless
eyes looked coldly down at Charles; a cruel mouth
relaxed into a smile; a clearer, harder voice than
Freddy’s spoke:</p>

<p>‘So you’re not dead? It’s a pity—for you.’</p>

<p>Charles glared. At the sight of Freddy’s smile such a
hot rage boiled up in him that he felt as if he would
burst.</p>

<p>Freddy nodded.</p>

<p>‘You’re beginning to realize what a damn fool you’ve
made of yourself. Amusing—isn’t it? Just think of all
the times you’ve laughed at me behind my back and
been nice to me in a pleasant condescending way for
Margaret’s sake. And just think what a howling fool
you were making of yourself all the time. It’s really
rather a pity that I can’t take the gag out and hear what
you’ve got to say about it. Perhaps later on, in a more
secluded spot—I’m afraid it won’t do here, but I really
should like to hear what you’ve got to say. I’m afraid
you’re not very comfortable; but that can’t be helped.’</p>

<p>He held the back of the sofa and began to laugh,
rocking gently to and fro. ‘My dear Charles, you’ve no
idea what a fool you look! I’m really delighted that
you’re not seriously hurt. In case you’re worrying
about it, do let me beg you not to be fussed about your
wound. It’s really a mere nothing—a graze. You can’t
think how pleased I am, because there are things that
I’m really going to enjoy saying to you. I’ve always
disliked you a good deal. You had the impudence to
admire Esther, for one thing, and to combine it with a
scarcely veiled contempt for myself. When I broke off
your engagement to Margaret, I was really combining
business with pleasure. I hope you realize how entirely
you owe the pleasure of being publicly jilted on the eve
of your wedding day to me.’</p>

<p>Charles had mastered the blind rage which betrayed
itself. He kept his eyes on Freddy in a stare of contempt.</p>

<p>‘Margaret told you that she saw part of a letter of
mine. Naturally I couldn’t risk her marrying you and
telling you what she had seen. As a matter of fact, I
don’t know how much she did see—but none of it was
really fit for publication. I don’t think I’ve ever been so
careless before or since—I shouldn’t have lasted so
long if I had. I’ve had twenty years of it, and you’re the
very first person who has ever guessed that I was Grey
Mask.’</p>

<p>The name fell like a spark into the vague gaseous
imaginings that had been coming and going in Charles’s
mind. There was a flare which illumined all the dark
places. By its light Charles read his death warrant. The
only person who had ever guessed the identity of Grey
Mask would not be given the chance of passing the
secret on. Something of this knowledge must have shown
in his eyes, for Freddy laughed.</p>

<p>‘You’ve got it, have you? Think it over for a bit.’</p>

<p>He disappeared, crossed to the window, and almost
immediately returned.</p>

<p>‘Margaret is coming up the garden. Now please
realize this—if you make the slightest sound, if you
attract her attention in any way, I shall shoot—not you,
but her. Don’t imagine for a moment that this is bluff.
If it comes in the way of business, I don’t care who I
remove. But as a matter of fact, I dislike Margaret
almost as much as I dislike you, and if you provide me
with the excuse, I shall be charmed. Make as much
noise as you please. You can kick the leg of the sofa, I
expect, if you try.’ He leant over and flicked Charles on
the cheek.</p>

<p>The next instant there came a tapping on the
window. The sofa was pushed back into its place, and
Freddy Pelham’s footsteps receded.</p>

<p>Charles lay quite still. Freddy meant what he said.
He had not the slightest doubt of that—not the very
slightest. He lay perfectly still, and heard the French
window open; Margaret’s voice; Freddy’s voice—the
old half-hesitating voice;</p>

<p>‘Now this is very nice of you, my dear—very nice
indeed. I meant to come round, but time’s getting
short, getting terribly short—first thing tomorrow
morning, you know, and I don’t feel as if I should ever
be packed in time—I’m not good at it, you know, not
at all good at it—never was, never will be—what?’</p>

<p>‘Can I help?’</p>

<p>The sound of Margaret’s voice, tired, soft, kind, hurt
Charles so much that he could hardly bear it. He could
only see those two dark walls and the light coming
down between them; but he knew in his heart how
Margaret looked when she said that—she was pale, she
had dark shadows under her eyes; she looked beautifully
and kindly at the little mocking devil who would
be charmed to have an excuse for removing her.</p>

<p>Margaret spoke again:</p>

<p>‘Freddy, you look bothered, and I’m afraid I’ve
come to bother you more. But I must.’</p>

<p>‘Anything I can do, my dear.’</p>

<p>‘Freddy, I’m in dreadful trouble about Greta.’</p>

<p>‘About Greta? There, my dear, don’t distress yourself.
What’s she been doing?’</p>

<p>‘Freddy—she’s disappeared!’</p>

<p>‘Oh, come! Disappeared! You mean she’s gone out
with some young fellow and not come back yet. Give
her time—what?’</p>

<p>‘No, no, it’s not that. She disappeared in broad
daylight from Harridge’s. The commissionaire saw her
get into a strange car and go off. Archie’s wild with
anxiety.’</p>

<p>Freddy laughed, the old rather foolish laugh which
was so familiar.</p>

<p>‘Master Archie’s in love. He’s jealous because Miss
Greta has gone off for the day with someone else.’</p>

<p>‘Freddy, it isn’t that. Look here, Freddy, you may
have guessed—I don’t know whether you have or not.
Greta is Margot Standing.’</p>

<p>Freddy’s exclamation of astonishment sounded so
natural that Charles started.</p>

<p>‘No! Not really!’</p>

<p>‘Freddy—’ Margaret’s voice sank low and troubled—‘<span class='it'>Freddy!</span>
Margot Standing—Grey Mask—did you know
there was anything?’</p>

<p>Freddy said ‘Hush!’ in a shocked breath.</p>

<p>‘Did you? Freddy, did you know that they wanted
her <span class='it'>removed</span>? Freddy, I’m so dreadfully frightened.’</p>

<p>Margaret had sunk into the chair beside the writing-table.
She leaned across the corner of the table now
and caught at Freddy’s hand.</p>

<p>‘You told me it was political. I believed you until the
other day.’</p>

<p>‘My dear.’</p>

<p>‘Freddy—I believed you.’ She looked up at him
through a mist of tears. ‘Freddy, Charles was in his
house the day you were ill and sent me to the meeting
there. He—heard things. He heard things about
Margot. He heard them say she must be <span class='it'>removed</span> if her
mother’s marriage certificate were found—they talked
about a street accident. He heard them. If he hadn’t
seen me, he would have called in the police then and
there. I wish—I <span class='it'>wish</span> he had, for I’m desperately afraid
about Margot.’</p>

<p>‘Now my dear.’ Freddy was patting her hand. She
pulled it away with a jerk.</p>

<p>‘I think they’ve got hold of her. You’ll help—won’t
you?’ Charles could hear how her voice shook. ‘Freddy,
she’s only a child really—just a pretty baby. You
liked her. You <span class='it'>can</span> help if you will, because you know
where to find <span class='it'>him</span>.’ The last word came with a gasp.</p>

<p>Freddy Pelham had turned away. He put his hands
over his eyes and did not speak.</p>

<p>‘Freddy, you did like her. You’ll help.’</p>

<p>‘What can I do?’</p>

<p>‘You can go to them.’</p>

<p>‘No, no.’</p>

<p>‘You must go to them, or else—’ her voice fell and
steadied—‘I must go to the police.’</p>

<p>Charles heard a sudden sharp exclamation—protest,
terror; then Margaret, very steady:</p>

<p>‘If there’s no other way, I must.’</p>

<p>Freddy spoke, terror rushing into panic.</p>

<p>‘Don’t be a fool! Charles likes her—do you want
him to like her? Aren’t you—fond of him yourself? Let
her go. What does it matter to you? Do you want him
to fall in love with her? Are you going to ruin yourself
and me—and me, to give Charles an heiress? Is that
what you’re going to do?’</p>

<p>‘Don’t!’</p>

<p>‘If it’s ruin for me, you’re in it too. Don’t forget
that!’</p>

<p>Charles knew the mockery of that shaking craven
voice.</p>

<p>‘Yes—I know. But I can’t let that child be hurt.’ A
strange passion came into her voice. ‘I ought to have
done it before—I see that now. But I didn’t know the
risk she was running—I didn’t—not till the other
night. Freddy, that bus—it wasn’t an accident. She was
pushed. Freddy, who pushed her?’</p>

<p>With every word she spoke Charles Moray’s agony
of apprehension was heightened. He was helpless,
voiceless, dead already; and he had to see Margaret
draw nearer step by step to the pit into which he himself
had fallen. That she was lost from the moment she
mentioned the police, he was persuaded; and to listen
whilst Freddy played with her, used her to torture him,
was the last indignity of pain.</p>

<p>‘Who pushed her?’</p>

<p>He heard Margaret say that, and then silence fell—a
long, cold silence. He did not see Freddy Pelham’s
hand drop down upon his knee. He did not see the
mockery that looked out of Freddy Pelham’s eyes.</p>

<p>Margaret saw these things. Only a yard away from
her there sat someone whom she had never known,
someone whose eyes gave her an unbelievable answer
to the question she had asked. The silence went on.
Margaret’s very heart was cold with it. She began
slowly to believe that unbelievable answer; she began
to believe the other things which the silence and those
horrible eyes were telling her. She would have been
very glad to faint, but her mind was clear and steady; it
was her heart that was numb with pain.</p>

<p>After a very long time Charles heard her say ‘Oh!’
The sound broke something, for immediately Freddy
Pelham laughed.</p>

<p>‘So you’ve answered your very naïve question for
yourself. As your friend Archie would say, you’ve got
it in one. I was aware that Miss Greta Wilson was
Margot Standing. And when she so obligingly prattled
at my dinner table about a certificate she had found, I
thought myself justified in taking a slight personal risk
when an exceptionally favourable opportunity presented
itself. I reached behind you and at the critical moment
I pushed her. If you hadn’t interfered, she would have
been very neatly disposed of.’</p>

<p>Margaret sprang to her feet.</p>

<p>‘You’re mad! You don’t know what you’re saying!’</p>

<p>‘People are always mad when they run counter to
the established order. I’ve been very successfully mad
for twenty years. I have had very few failures, and not
one disaster. I am, in fact, a successful madman.’ His
tone was coldly amused.</p>

<p>‘Who are you?’ said Margaret. Even her voice
shrank.</p>

<p>Charles could guess at the horror in her eyes. He
could guess at Freddy’s smile.</p>

<p>‘Don’t you know?’</p>

<p>‘No.’ It was just a breath.</p>

<p>Freddy Pelham put his hand in his pocket and drew
out a small automatic pistol.</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid you will have to pay the penalty for
knowing that I am Grey Mask,’ he said.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XLII</h1></div>

<p>The room was silent. Charles could hear nothing, see
nothing. He strained, and heard only the horrid beat of
his own pulses.</p>

<p>Margaret’s hands had fallen on the back of the chair
by which she stood. It was a heavy mahogany chair
with an old-fashioned horse-hair seat. Her hands closed
on the smooth mahogany in the hard grip that felt
nothing. The pillars of her house had fallen. She stood
in the disaster and held blindly to the nearest thing
that offered support. The shock was too great for
crying out; it struck her dumb. She saw the pistol
and the cruelty in Freddy’s eyes. She hoped he would
shoot quickly. It was too horrible. She hoped he would
shoot quickly.</p>

<p>He did not shoot. He balanced the pistol in his hand
and laughed.</p>

<p>‘I’m glad you didn’t scream. Marvellous self-control!
If you had screamed, I should have had to shoot you
at once—and that would have been a pity. I should
like—’ his voice slipped back into the hesitating voice
that she had always known—‘I should really like now
to have a little talk with you first, my dear—a comfortable
talk—what?’</p>

<p>Margaret drew a long, deep, shuddering breath, and
he laughed again.</p>

<p>‘Not any louder than that please.’ It was Grey Mask
speaking. ‘I don’t want to have to put an end to our
little party just as we’re all really beginning to enjoy
ourselves—but I’m forgetting you’re not aware that it is
a party. They say three isn’t company; but it does so
depend on the three. Doesn’t it? Now you and I and
Charles—’</p>

<p>Margaret said ‘Oh!’ It was a quick involuntary cry.</p>

<p>Freddy Pelham took her by the shoulder. She had
not known that there could be so much strength in his
fingers.</p>

<p>‘You haven’t said how d’you do to Charles,’ he
said. ‘Come along and have a look at him. He’s been
having a most entertaining time, and so have I. It’s
time you had a share in the fun. Let go of that chair!’
This last was a sharp command with a sort of snarling
fury behind it that was quite sudden and very daunting.</p>

<p>Then in an instant, as Margaret’s rigid fingers still
held on to the mahogany rail, he struck her across the
knuckles with the little pistol. The blow cut the skin.</p>

<p>Charles heard her gasp and catch her breath. The
next moment the sofa was pulled aside. Freddy was
grinning at him, and Margaret looking, looking with
her bruised hands at her breast and sheer heartbreak in
her eyes. She said ‘Charles’ and again ‘Charles’ very
faintly; and the ‘Is he—’ and long, long pause before
her failing voice said, ‘dead?’</p>

<p>‘Not yet,’ said Freddy.</p>

<p>Margaret cried out and wrenched away from him.</p>

<p>‘Steady now—steady! If you make a noise, I shall
have to shoot him here—and now. You can look, but
you mustn’t touch. He’s a lovely sight—isn’t he? You
needn’t be alarmed by the blood on the side of his
head—it’s a mere scratch and won’t interfere in the
least with his enjoyment of the next few days. I’m not
going to hurt either of you, you know, unless you
positively oblige me to—I’m only going to leave you in
a comfortable dry cellar where you may, or may not,
be found when the ninety-nine-year lease of this house
has fallen in, in—let me see, it is seventy or seventy-one
years’ time from now—I’m really not quite sure.’</p>

<p>Margaret turned on him with a courage which
stirred Charles Moray’s pride.</p>

<p>‘Freddy, you’re not well. You—what are you saying?
Freddy—<span class='it'>think</span>!’</p>

<p>Freddy Pelham let his amused gaze touch first one
and then the other of them.</p>

<p>‘My dear Margaret, it will save trouble if you will
realize that you are not dealing with an amiable stepfather
who has suddenly gone mad, but with a man of
intelligence who has built up a most successful business
and is prepared to remove anyone who endangers it.
Though I dislike you both acutely, I should never have
lifted a finger against either of you if you had not
foolishly threatened me with the police. I never mix
business and pleasure. It will save time if you realize
this. As an illustration, I may tell you that the cellar of
which I spoke just now was the reason for my buying
this house, and for my continuing to stay here all these
years. It has often been—exceedingly useful. It was
constructed by the eccentric Sir Joseph Tunney in
1795. I came across a reference in an old book of
memoirs which caused me to buy this house when it
came into the market. When I say that not even your
mother has ever suspected the existence of this extra
cellar, you will admit that Sir Joseph Tunney was a
highly ingenious person. Why, Mark Dupre was there
for a fortnight, with the police scouring the country for
him, and not a soul ever suspected where he had been.
He was wise enough to pay up, and when we had
collected the money, he was found—as perhaps you
remember—on the top of Hindhead in his pyjamas
without the slightest idea of how he got there.’</p>

<p>Margaret had been falling slowly back step by step
with her hands out before her as if to keep something
away. As Freddy finished speaking, she sank down in
the chair by the writing-table, flung out her arms across
the scattered papers, and bowed her head upon them.</p>

<p>‘Well now, we’ll go down and look at the cellar—what?’</p>

<p>The reappearance of the old Freddy was the last
touch of horror. Margaret cried out and lifted her
head.</p>

<p>‘Freddy—there’s one thing,—Freddy—mother—will
you tell me the truth? What happened? Is she—dead?’</p>

<p>He stiffened.</p>

<p>‘That’s a very extraordinary thing to say. What
makes you ask a thing like that?’</p>

<p>‘An old friend—I met an old friend of hers. She
said—she said—she’d seen her a fortnight ago in
Vienna. I thought—’ Her voice died as he looked at her.</p>

<p>‘Who is this—friend?’</p>

<p>‘I shan’t tell you. She only saw her for an instant.
She didn’t speak to her. Freddy, <span class='it'>tell</span> me!’ Her fingers
clasped and unclasped themselves, tearing a piece of
paper to shreds. ‘Freddy, <span class='it'>tell</span> me!’</p>

<p>‘Who is this friend?’</p>

<p>She shook her head.</p>

<p>‘You don’t know her. She doesn’t know anything.
She thinks it was a likeness. Please, <span class='it'>please</span> tell me.’</p>

<p>‘What does it matter to you now? On the other
hand, it doesn’t really matter to me; so, as it happens, I
don’t mind telling you. Esther is alive—or was three
days ago when her last letter to me was posted.’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Alive!</span>’ The word came with a rush.</p>

<p>‘I’ve already told you that it makes no difference to
you. It’s very irrational of you to feel any pleasure in a
matter which won’t concern you in the least.’</p>

<p>Margaret said ‘<span class='it'>Alive!</span>’ again. This time the word was
only a whisper.</p>

<p>Freddy Pelham began to walk up and down the
room.</p>

<p>‘Yes, she’s alive. If even the strongest of us hadn’t
got his weakness, she wouldn’t be alive. She’s been my
danger always—<span class='it'>always</span>.’ He repeated the word with a
certain fierce energy. ‘A man in my line of business
should never allow himself a serious affair with a
woman—it’s dangerous. You needn’t think of me as a
fool who gave way to a weakness. No, I always knew
that she was my danger point, and I ran the risk
deliberately, because she was the only woman I have
ever met who was worth it, and because I felt myself
strong enough to surmount the danger.’</p>

<p>Margaret’s eyes rested on him with a horrified
surprise. Was this Freddy?</p>

<p>He went on talking all the time in a low, hard tone:</p>

<p>‘I risked it, and I risked it successfully until six
months ago. Then she discovered something. If she had
been an ordinary woman, I could have put her off—you
know how quick she is. Besides I was not
altogether sorry. One gets a little tired of acting the poor
fool whose only merit is his capacity for humble
adoration. I welcomed the chance of showing myself to
Esther as I really was.’ He paused, stood in the middle
of the room looking down at the pistol in his hand. ‘I
ought to have ended it at once when I found how
unreasonable she was. Instead, I went back to my
acting—I played the penitent—and ye gods, how
women do revel in forgiveness! She produced a plan
she considered a stroke of genius—we would go
abroad, making her health the excuse. I was to renounce
my profession and any profits derived from it. A
deliciously feminine piece of impracticability. Well,
we went abroad. I allowed Esther to think that she was
choosing our route. As a matter of fact, I had a plan of
my own. I have for some years possessed a charming
estate in eastern Europe. I took Esther there by car.
She had no idea of where she was when we got there.
Fortune played into my hands; she fell ill after a scene
in which I explained my plan to her. Then, I must confess,
I displayed weakness. I did not accept what
chance offered me. I found myself unable to do so—I
found that I could not contemplate life without her. It
was a weakness. I temporized. I sent telegrams
announcing her death. At one moment I hoped that she
would die; at the next I drove three hundred miles to
fetch a doctor. In the end she lived. I left her in
trustworthy hands and came back. If I found that I
could live without her, she could still be removed. If I
was unable to conquer this foolish weakness of mine,
she could remain in seclusion, and I could so arrange
my affairs as to be able to go backwards and forwards.
This morning—’ He stopped, looked down at the
pistol with a cold, furious stare, and then went on
quickly: ‘This morning I heard from her—from
Vienna. She had made her way there—how, I shall
make it my business to find out. She could not have got
away except by treachery—it was impossible. She
writes that she is well—that there are things she does
not understand—that she is waiting in Vienna for a
personal explanation. I propose to give her one that will
remove all further danger from my path.’</p>

<p>Margaret turned her eyes from his face. Another
moment, and she would have screamed aloud. She
caught at the arm of her chair and stood up. She was
trembling very much. As Freddy came towards her, she
went back step by step, her hands behind her, until she
reached the window. She touched the edge of the blind.</p>

<p>Freddy levelled his pistol.</p>

<p>‘If you lift that blind or call out, I’ll shoot.’</p>

<p>She shook her head, leaning there with half-closed
eyes as if she were about to faint.</p>

<p>‘Come away from that window at once! Do you
hear? One—’ he wheeled suddenly and aimed at
Charles—‘two—’</p>

<p>Margaret ran forward sobbing and catching her
breath.</p>

<p>‘No—no—<span class='it'>no</span>!’</p>

<p>He caught her roughly by the arm.</p>

<p>‘We’ve had enough of this. Come along! Walk in
front of me to the door and open it! Remember if you
make one sound, it’ll be your last.’</p>

<p>He turned and took an electric torch from a shelf.</p>

<p>Charles saw the door opened. As Margaret passed
through it, he thought, with a frightful stab of pain, that
he had seen her face for the last time. She looked over
her shoulder just before the door swung in and hid her
from his sight. He strained with all his might against his
bonds, only to realize that he was exhausting himself
uselessly. He lay still, and suffered for Margaret. The
sudden break in her self-control, the pitiful sobbing—if
only she had not broken down—if only her fine pride
had held to the last. Charles Moray remembered that
he had wished to see it broken.</p>

<p>He remembered all the times she had looked pale,
and he had been angry, and all the times she had been
sad and he had been cruel. And he remembered that he
might have comforted her, and he had not. And now it
was too late. He could not tell her now that he had
loved her all the time—he could never tell her now. He
had meant to tell her. He had meant to kiss the sorrow
from her eyes and the sadness from her lips. He had
meant to hold her close and hear her say, ‘Forgive—forgive
the years I stole’... It was too late.</p>

<p>Half-way down the stairs Margaret sank down. The
hand on her shoulder closed in a bruising grip and
jerked her to her feet. They passed out of the hall and
through the door leading to the basement. Margaret’s
steps faltered; she had to lean against the wall. The
hand on her shoulder forced her on and down.</p>

<p>In the basement, the empty kitchen and other
offices; and at the back, a small flight of steps that led to
the cellars, three in number—one for coal, one full of
packing-cases, and the third a locked wine-cellar.</p>

<p>Freddy Pelham unlocked the door. There was a
good deal of wine in the bins and, at the far end, a cask
or two and some more packing-cases. He shut and
locked the door on the inside, and then proceeded to
shift one of the casks and to move the packing-cases.</p>

<p>A low, stout wooden door barred with iron came
into view behind them. It was barely three feet high, and
was secured by three strong bolts.</p>

<p>Freddy shot them back.</p>

<p>‘When I bought the house, all this was very cleverly
hidden—match-boarding and whitewash—very clever
indeed. Without the information which I had extracted
from an otherwise extraordinarily dry book of memoirs
I should never have found it, and you wouldn’t be here.
Let us praise the pious memory of Sir Joseph Tunney.’</p>

<p>He pushed the door, which opened inwards. A
horrible darkness showed beyond. He stood back with
the mockery of a bow.</p>

<p>‘It’s perfectly dry, and on the warm side. Your last
hours should be quite comfortable.’</p>

<p>Margaret leaned against the packing-cases.</p>

<p>‘And if I won’t?’</p>

<p>‘I shoot you here and push you into that most convenient
vault. In with you!’</p>

<p>‘Freddy—’ The word died on her lips. There was
nothing to appeal to. There wasn’t any Freddy. There
was only Grey Mask.</p>

<p>She had to bend almost double to pass that horrible
low door. Freddy’s torch threw a dancing ray beyond
her into the darkness. Her head swam as she watched it
flicker. The rough floor seemed to tilt and tremble. Her
foot slipped and she fell forward. Behind her the door
slammed and she heard the bolts go home. The flickering
ray was gone. It was dark.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XLIII</h1></div>

<p>Margaret lay where she had fallen. The strength had
gone out of her. She lay quite still and strained for any
sound from beyond the bolted door. There wasn’t any
sound. She could not hear Freddy’s retreating footsteps
or the opening and closing of the wine-cellar door. She
could not hear anything at all. The place was soundless,
lightless, utterly cut off. The warm, heavy air weighed
on her with a deadening pressure. She kept her eyes
shut so that she could not see how dark it was. Minutes
passed.</p>

<p>It was a very little thing that roused her. Her left
hand lay on a sharp point in the uneven floor, and a
good part of her weight rested on this hand. The
pressure became unbearable. She moved, shuddered,
and sat up.</p>

<p>Instantly she wished that she had not moved, that
she had let the sharp point prick her to the bone. The
darkness of the place was dreadful. In every direction
there was a gloom so dense that it seemed to forbid
movement and breath as well as sight. Only thought
remained—Charles. Was she to die alone in the dark?
What had happened to Charles? Would she ever know?
What was happening? The door and the darkness were
between her and the answer to all the terrified throng
of thoughts that clamoured to know.</p>

<p>She covered her face with her hands and bent her
head upon her knees. She mustn’t let herself lose grip.
Grey Mask couldn’t touch them really. Nothing could
touch you as long as you held on—not darkness, nor
silence, nor anything that anyone could do. She
stopped minding the dark.</p>

<p>It seemed to be a very long time before a sound
reached her. It came suddenly, harshly, as the bolts ran
back and the door swung in.</p>

<p>She sat up, her heart beating violently, and saw the
beam from Freddy’s torch cutting across the corner of
the nearest packing-case. The wood was rough and
splintered. The beam gave each splinter its own black
shadow, then, shifting, touched Charles Moray’s foot.
His ankles had been untied. He seemed to be leaning
against the case. Behind him, Freddy spoke:</p>

<p>‘Pride goes before a fall. Get down and get in! I
haven’t any more time to spare for either of you. Get
inside!’</p>

<p>Margaret was filled with a curious trembling joy.
Charles was here. Whatever happened, they were
going to be together. She drew back and saw him come
through the low doorway bent double. Suddenly he
pitched forward as Freddy thrust at him from behind.</p>

<p>Margaret gave a sharp cry of pain, and had the light
flashed full upon her face.</p>

<p>‘Well, well,’ said Freddy Pelham, ‘you can now
make the most of your time together. You can break
your finger-nails trying to undo my knots, and when
you’ve got them undone, you’ll be just as far from
getting out of this as you were before. It may save you
a good deal of trouble if I tell you that this place is
absolutely sound-proof. You won’t even hear me lock
the wine-cellar door as I go out, and from the other side
of that door I shouldn’t hear a sound if you were shouting
through a megaphone. There are eight feet of earth
between you and the garden, and six men couldn’t
break down the door. I don’t know what old Joe
Tunney used this cellar for; but I know what we’ve
used it for, and it has stood the test every time. The
ventilation is quite adequate and rather ingenious.’</p>

<p>He shifted the torch and allowed it to light up his
wrist watch for an instant.</p>

<p>‘I must be going. I have still a few things to do, and I
have to be up early. Perhaps it may solace you tomorrow
to think of my flying to Vienna. With any luck
we shall get above the fog. You can think of me bathed
in sunshine. There was an old-fashioned song which I
remember an aunt of mine used to sing very charmingly:</p>

<div class='literal-container' style=''><div class='literal'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>“For I am content to abide in the shadow</p>
<p class='line'>So long as the sunshine falls brightly on thee.”</p>
</div></div> <!-- end rend -->

<p>In Vienna—I have an account to square.’ His voice
had changed; the words came slowly; there were
strange undertones of reluctance, effort, fear. Grey
Mask’s one weakness was a weakness still. It was not
the least of Esther Brandon’s many triumphs.</p>

<p>With a quick jerk Freddy Pelham slammed the door
on them. The bolts were shot with violence.</p>

<p>Margaret listened as she had done before, and heard
no further sound. She put out her hand and groped for
Charles. And then a dreadful thought struck her rigid.
Suppose Freddy hadn’t really gone. Suppose he were
just waiting there on the other side of the door to see
what they would do—listening, waiting, ready to break
in on them and snatch away their little lingering hope.</p>

<p>She crept to the door, laid her ear against the crack,
and listened with such an intensity that it seemed to her
as if she must hear every sound in the world.</p>

<p>She could hear nothing.</p>

<p>Then in the dark beside her Charles Moray moved,
struggling into a sitting position. Instantly she forgot
Freddy. Still on her knees, she turned; her arm flung
out, struck against his shoulder and came about him in
a movement astonishingly full of protecting strength.
She began to whisper to him:</p>

<p>‘Charles—are you all right? I’ll get this dreadful
thing out of your mouth—if I were only sure he’d
gone—do you think it’s safe? Wait—wait—just a
minute—whilst I listen again. Are you all right? Move
your head if you are.’</p>

<p>She felt it move, and turned back to the door. Not a
sound—not one smallest sound. After all, why should
he wait? He wouldn’t wait—he would want to get
away.</p>

<p>She turned round again.</p>

<p>‘I think it’s all right. He’d want to get away. I want
you to lean against me—yes, like that—so that I can
feel just where you are. I came straight from the shop,
so I’ve got my scissors. I’ve been thinking of them all
the time. I can cut that horrible bandage, only you
must keep awfully still.’</p>

<p>The fingers of her right hand went to her coat,
unbuttoning it. The scissors hung at her side, a good
strong pair, really made for use. She cut through the
ribbon that held them, and then, shielding the point
with a very careful finger, guided them to where the
bandage crossed his left ear. The gag had been tied on
with a silk handkerchief. Once the point was under the
tight fold, it was easily cut.</p>

<p>Charles had never experienced a more blessed relief.
He coughed, spluttered, and spat out the gag—another
handkerchief by the feel of it. Margaret was fingering
the rope at his wrists. This was silk too—one of those
heavy cords that are used to loop back the old-fashioned
type of curtain. The knots might have defied
her, but the strands were soon cut through.</p>

<p>‘That’s great!’</p>

<p>He stretched his arms, then felt his head gingerly.</p>

<p>‘Are you all right? Charles—’</p>

<p>‘Right as rain.’</p>

<p>‘Ssh! Perhaps he’s still there. He mustn’t hear you
speak. Do you think he’s gone?’</p>

<p>‘My dear, what does it matter?’</p>

<p>‘He—why did you say that?’</p>

<p>Charles put his arm round her.</p>

<p>‘We’d better face it, old girl. We’re through. If he
came back and shot us, it would be quicker.’</p>

<p>She did not speak for a minute. She did not speak,
because for a long minute she was too happy to speak.
She leaned against Charles in the darkness and felt his
arm about her, very strong, very steady. Nothing
seemed to matter.</p>

<p>The arm about her tightened.</p>

<p>‘Margaret!’</p>

<p>She turned her face to him.</p>

<p>‘Margaret—we’re together!’</p>

<p>‘Yes—’ The word was a sighing breath.</p>

<p>‘I’ve been an utter beast to you. I—I loved you all
the time.’</p>

<p>He felt her draw away.</p>

<p>‘I thought—you loved Greta.’</p>

<p>‘Good Lord! I’m not a nursemaid! The creature’s
about five years old! You didn’t really think so!’</p>

<p>‘I did.’</p>

<p>‘My darling idiot!’</p>

<p>He kissed her.</p>

<p>‘Do you think so now—now—<span class='it'>now</span>? Why are you
crying—Meg?’</p>

<p>Margaret hid her face against him.</p>

<p>‘Because I’m so—happy.’</p>

<p>There was a blessed silence. The cellar, the darkness,
the desperate, hopeless state in which they stood,
were just the outer shadow which could not touch
them. Margaret, at least, was in some joyful place of
heart’s desire, the haven which she had longed for and
never hoped to see.</p>

<p>To Charles the shadow was a visible menace. He
spoke first:</p>

<p>‘They’ll look for us—they’re bound to look for us.’</p>

<p>But even at the sound of his own words his heart sank.
They might look; but how would they ever find them
here?</p>

<p>‘If we’d a light. Do you know how big this place is?’</p>

<p>‘No. I don’t think there’s any way out, or he wouldn’t
have left us. But, Charles, they <span class='it'>will</span> look for us.’</p>

<p>‘Did anyone know you were coming here?’</p>

<p>‘One of the girls at the shop did. I told her I was
going to say goodbye to my stepfather. And—and
Archie knew—’ She stopped, trying to remember
exactly what she had said to Archie.</p>

<p>‘What?’</p>

<p>‘I’m trying to think. I said—yes, I’m sure I only
said—I didn’t mention Freddy’s name—I told Archie
to go to the police. And he didn’t want to. Did he know
about me?’</p>

<p>‘I told him last night. It seems about a hundred years
ago. What did you say to him?’</p>

<p>‘I said there was someone who might know where
Greta was. Oh, Charles, I wonder where she is?’</p>

<p>‘Is that all you said?’</p>

<p>‘I think so. But if he was to ask at the shop, they
might think—’</p>

<p>‘This place is so damnably well hidden.’</p>

<p>‘Charles, I want to tell you—does it make it worse
for you to hope? I <span class='it'>do</span> think there’s <span class='it'>some</span> hope.’</p>

<p>‘Where?’</p>

<p>To Charles there seemed to be no hope at all.</p>

<p>‘Because—I’ll tell you—you know when I was sitting
at the table up there in the study—I was desperate—I
felt I must do something after he said that about the
cellars. I don’t know if you could see me. I had my
arms on the table, and I put my head down and
pretended I was crying. I wasn’t crying. I’d seen a
pencil, and I got it in my fingers and wrote on a bit of
paper. I wrote “Cellars—C and M.” I kept the paper in
the palm of my hand. I’d thought what I would do—it
was just a chance, but it was the only thing I could
think of. All the time he was talking and walking up
and down, I was trying to think. And I tore up some
little bits of paper quite small and kept them in my
other hand. When I went back to the window as if I was
frightened—oh, I <span class='it'>was</span> frightened—I didn’t have to
pretend—I was horribly frightened—because I thought
he’d shoot you if he found out—I—’</p>

<p>‘What did you do?’ said Charles quickly.</p>

<p>‘I stuck the paper on the glass—on the window-pane.
I’d sucked my finger and made it wet, and stuck
the paper on the glass—the bit I’d written on. I wasn’t
sure if it would stick, but it did. It’s only a chance, but
if he doesn’t find it, they will.’</p>

<p>Charles held her tight.</p>

<p>‘It’s behind the blind?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘He won’t pull up the blind. Why should he? I don’t
believe he’ll find it. Archie’s bound to come here.
Margaret—darling—darling—darling—I believe you’ve
saved us!’</p>

<p>‘I couldn’t think of anything else except—except—I
dropped a little bit of paper on the stairs, and here and
there on the way down to the basement, and one at the
wine-cellar door, and two or three where the packing-cases
are hiding this little door. I had to chance his
seeing them. But he only had a torch. I thought I was
bound to risk it. Do you think—do you really think
they’ll find us?’</p>

<p>A cold revulsion sobered Charles. The hope which
had carried him away offered so much. It gave him
happiness, love—and Margaret. He was afraid to look
at what it offered him.</p>

<p>‘I—don’t—know,’ he said.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XLIV</h1></div>

<p>Long hours of the night—very long—very dark.</p>

<p>Charles explored the cellar and found it about
twelve feet square. There was no sign of any other
opening. He lifted Margaret as high as he could hold
her. She could just touch the roof.</p>

<p>Later he broke her scissors in a vain attempt to dig
through the wall into the wine-cellar; the points slid
and broke on very hard cement. The door itself would
have withstood a battering ram. There was nothing for
it but to wait.</p>

<p>They talked. There was so much to talk about. And
then, quite suddenly, Margaret fell asleep with his arm
about her and her head against his shoulder. The air
was heavy and rather warm; it had the curious smell of
underground places where no light ever comes. Presently
Charles slept too.</p>

<p>He awoke with a consuming thirst; and as he moved,
Margaret stirred and woke too. Her little cry of surprise
cut him to the heart. She had forgotten. Now she
must remember and face a black day of dwindling
hope. In those night hours Charles had come to think
their chance of being discovered a very slender one
indeed.</p>

<p>Margaret said, ‘I’d forgotten—I was dreaming.’ A
little shuddering laughter shook her. ‘It felt so real—a
great deal more real than this. I suppose—Charles, I
suppose <span class='it'>this</span> isn’t the dream?’</p>

<p>If it were. If they could wake up and be together in
the light. Charles put his face against hers.</p>

<p>‘What did you dream, Meg?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t know—it’s gone. It was something—happy.
You were there. We were frightfully happy.’</p>

<p>If they could wake up. He held her hard for a
minute. Then his clasp relaxed, and he said with
sudden violence.</p>

<p>‘That little devil must be starting.’</p>

<p>‘Is it morning?’</p>

<p>‘Yes—seven o’clock—quite light outside.’</p>

<p>A most terrible longing for the light swept over
Margaret. She had a picture of the grey morning, and
an aeroplane rising higher and higher until the sunlight
struck the wings and made them shine. She cried out:</p>

<p>‘I can’t bear it! Charles, if they don’t come today—if
they don’t come soon, he’ll get there—he’ll get to
Vienna! And she doesn’t know—she’ll be waiting for
him, and she doesn’t know!’</p>

<p>‘We’re all in the same boat, my dear.’</p>

<p>‘I can’t bear it!’ There were tears in her voice. ‘It’s
so awful not to be able to do anything. When I think
that she’s alive, I want to sing for joy; and when I think
of him—getting nearer and nearer, and no one to warn
her, I—I—<span class='it'>Charles</span>!’</p>

<p>She clung to him in a passion of bitter weeping.</p>

<p>‘She’s got more chance than we have, darling.’ The
blunt fact came out bluntly. ‘In a sort of a way he cares
for her, and—they may find us, you know.’</p>

<p>Margaret’s passion sank strangely into calm.</p>

<p>‘You don’t think they will.’</p>

<p>Charles Moray was silent.</p>

<div><h1>Chapter XLV</h1></div>

<p>‘Miss Silver! Thank Heaven!’</p>

<p>Miss Maud Silver looked mildly at an agitated young
man. She took a latch-key from a neat capacious bag
and opened her office door.</p>

<p>‘Come in, Mr Millar.’</p>

<p>Archie came in, flung his hat on a chair, and rumpled
his hair violently.</p>

<p>‘I’ve been walkin’ up and down waitin’ for you till I
thought I should go mad.’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Dear me</span>, Mr Millar—and why?’</p>

<p>‘Where’s Charles Moray?’</p>

<p>Miss Silver paused in the act of taking off a long drab
raincoat.</p>

<p>‘I really have no idea.’</p>

<p>‘Where’s Margaret Langton?’</p>

<p>‘Mr Millar—what do you mean?’</p>

<p>‘I mean they’ve disappeared—that’s what I mean.
I’ve been trying to get on to Charles since two o’clock
yesterday. He’s never been back to his hotel. I went to
Miss Langton’s flat last night, and she wasn’t there,
and she hasn’t been to work. What’s happened?’</p>

<p>A faint, fleeting smile just touched Miss Silver’s face.</p>

<p>‘They might have gone away together.’</p>

<p>‘Don’t you believe it! Somethin’ has happened. Now
look here! Charles went down to his house yesterday
afternoon and stayed there till it was dusk sortin’
papers—I’ve seen the housekeeper. He let himself out
by the garden way, and nobody’s seen him since.’</p>

<p>‘And Miss Langton?’</p>

<p>‘I’d just been seein’ her when I rang you up yesterday.
I was all worked up about Miss Standing. Miss
Langton told me to go to the police. I didn’t want to do
that.’ Archie hesitated; he wasn’t sure how much Miss
Silver knew. ‘There were reasons for not bringing the
police into it.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver gave her little cough.</p>

<p>‘I am aware of that. It was, if I may say so, exceedingly
courageous of Miss Langton to suggest your
going to the police. But—’ she coughed again—‘have
you considered the probability that she has disappeared
as a consequence of that suggestion?’</p>

<p>Archie nodded.</p>

<p>‘I thought about it.’</p>

<p>‘Mr Moray may have taken her away.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t think so, because, you see, I said I wouldn’t
go to the police.’</p>

<p>‘You said you wouldn’t go to the police?’</p>

<p>‘Not till we’d tried everythin’ else. And Margaret
said there was someone who might know where
Greta—where Miss Standing was. She said she’d go
and see this person as soon as ever she got off, and she
promised to ring me up at my cousin’s. Well, she never
rang me up at my cousin’s. And she never went back to
her flat. And it seems to me she might have seen this
fellow, whoever he was, and he might have cut up
rough.’</p>

<p>‘On the other hand, he might have known that Miss
Standing was safe. And Miss Langton may, as I
suggested before, have thought it wiser to disappear—there
have been several arrests.’</p>

<p>‘She’d have rung me up,’ said Archie doggedly.
‘She said she’d ring me up, and she’d have done it.
Don’t you believe she’s disappeared of her own free
will—she <span class='it'>hasn’t</span>. I’m very worried about her, and I’m
goin’ on worryin’ other people till I find her.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver took the brown exercise book, turned to
a blank page, and wrote. In a moment she looked up.</p>

<p>‘Yes?’</p>

<p>‘I went down to Sauterelle’s this mornin’—that’s
Miss Langton’s hat-shop. I asked to speak to the other
girls—bit of a V. C. job that—and one of them says
Margaret told her she was goin’ off to say goodbye to
her stepfather. Look here, Miss Silver—it’s damned
ridiculous, but I can’t get it out of my head—Margaret’s
stepfather is Freddy Pelham. He lives in a house in
George Street. The gardens run down to the gardens
of Thornhill Square, with just an alley-way between
them. Margaret went to say goodbye to Freddy
Pelham at six o’clock. Charles came out of his house in
Thornhill Square at somewhere about five. He came
out by the garden way. That’s to say he was within
fifty yards or so of Freddy Pelham’s back gate. Supposin’
he went up to say goodbye to Freddy Pelham too?
Margaret went, and she hasn’t come back. Charles
hasn’t come back either. It’s <span class='it'>damned</span> ridiculous, but I
can’t get it out of my head that old Charles may have
gone there too.’</p>

<p>‘There are other explanations,’ said Miss Silver.
Then she coughed and asked abruptly:</p>

<p>‘Where is Mr Pelham?’</p>

<p>‘Gone abroad. I told you Margaret was sayin’ goodbye
to him. Left this mornin’ by aeroplane. Address
<span class='it'>poste restante</span>, Paris—and a fat lot of good that is!’</p>

<p>Miss Silver tapped with her pencil.</p>

<p>‘Are you suggesting that we should apply for a search
warrant?’</p>

<p>‘No, I’m not. I’m suggestin’ doin’ a little job of
breakin’ and enterin’. Look here, Miss Silver, are you
game? I’m suggestin’ you and me goin’ boldly in by the
garden door and openin’ a window with a skeleton
key, or chisel, or what not. Unless Freddy’s done somethin’
drastic since I used to play in and out of the
garden with Charles and Margaret, there’ll be some
odd window I can get through. The question is, are you
game?’</p>

<p>‘I’ve my reputation to consider,’ said Miss Silver.
She coughed. ‘If I were walking along George Street
and were to ring Mr Pelham’s bell—’ she paused and
gazed at him mildly. ‘If you opened the door to me, it
really would not be any business of mine how you got
in.’</p>

<p>‘Right! I do the breakin’, and you do the enterin’.
Come along!’</p>

<p>Three-quarters of an hour later Mr Millar crawled
through a scullery window. It was a tight fit, and there
was broken glass about; his clothes sustained some
damage. He dusted himself, wondered why a scullery
always smelt of cabbage, and proceeded upstairs,
where he reconnoitred George Street through a hole in
the drawing-room shutters. Miss Silver, in her drab
raincoat and old-fashioned turban toque, was walking
slowly along the opposite pavement. She held a
newspaper in her hand.</p>

<p>Archie proceeded to the front door and oscillated
the brass flap of the letter-box.</p>

<p>Miss Silver crossed the road and rang the bell.</p>

<p>The door was secured by bolts at top and bottom.
They creaked a good deal. Archie opened the door
with a flourish, and Miss Silver came in. As soon as the
door was shut, she turned to Archie as if she were
about to speak; then suddenly changed her mind.
Instead she folded the newspaper and put it into her
bag.</p>

<p>They went together into the drawing-room. The
closed shutters made a gloom there. Miss Silver took a
torch from the pocket of her raincoat.</p>

<p>After ten minutes they went to the dining-room, and
then up the stairs. About half-way to the study Miss
Silver stooped and picked up a little piece of torn paper.
It was just such a piece as might be torn from the corner
of a letter. She flashed the light to and fro, but found
nothing more.</p>

<p>The study was not so dark as the drawing-room;
there were no shutters here, and the maroon curtains
had not been drawn. A light blind reaching to within
an inch of the floor screened the long french window.</p>

<p>Archie went over to the window and released the
blind. As it left his hand, Miss Silver called to him:</p>

<p>‘Mr Millar—come here.’</p>

<p>He came quickly. He had not thought that placid
voice could be shaken. Most undeniably it shook now.</p>

<p>‘Mr Millar—look!’</p>

<p>She pointed, and Archie looked. At about the level
of his shoulder the woodwork at the side of the door
was cracked. The edge of the jamb showed a small
semi-circular furrow, the wall behind a neat round
hole.</p>

<p>Archie gave a faint whistle of dismay.</p>

<p>‘A bullet hole, by gum!’</p>

<p>‘I think so. I think the bullet’s in the wall. I trust he
missed whatever he was aiming at.’</p>

<p>She walked over to the table, stooping on her way to
pick up another torn scrap of paper. This one lay near
the chair which was drawn close up to the side of the
table. She stood for a moment, small grey eyes intent,
hands clasped on the old-fashioned reticule she always
carried. Then she leaned over the table.</p>

<p>Half a dozen little bits of paper lay amongst Freddy
Pelham’s letters, just as they had slipped from Margaret’s
hand.</p>

<p>Miss Silver nodded, straightened up, and looked
about her. The table stood a couple of yards from the
window. She looked across it and saw the garden
sloping to the alley-way. The trees had a mournful,
drooping look, half their leaves gone, and those that
were left to them poor, torn, draggled survivals. She
saw the ugly spirals of the iron balustrade guarding the
garden stairs. She saw the long window between heavy,
maroon curtains, one looped back, the other hanging
straight. And she saw a piece of white paper lying at
the foot of the straight curtain.</p>

<p>She went over, picked it up, and held it out at Archie.</p>

<p>‘Well, Mr Millar, you were right. They’re here.’</p>

<p>Margaret had stuck her piece of paper on the glass,
but as it dried, it had fallen.</p>

<p>Archie read the scrawled pencil message:</p>

<p>‘Cellars—C. and M.’</p>

<p>He read it, turned to stare at the hole Freddy
Pelham’s bullet had made, and once more whistled
softly.</p>

<p>‘What’s it mean?’</p>

<p>‘We shall doubtless find out. Perhaps you know the
way to the cellars. I think we had better go there at
once.’</p>

<p>She was through the door before she finished speaking.
Archie followed.</p>

<p>At the door leading to the basement Miss Silver
found another piece of paper. She coughed approvingly.</p>

<p>‘It’s a pleasure to work with anyone so intelligent.’</p>

<p>‘I say, that’s awfully nice of you!’</p>

<p>‘I was not referring to you, Mr Millar. Miss Langton
must be a highly intelligent person, even for a woman.’</p>

<p>They went down into the basement, and farther
down to where three cellar doors opened upon a dark
flagged passage.</p>

<p>‘These two always were open,’ said Archie. ‘Freddy
liked messin’ about and doin’ a bit of carpentering in
this one, and the other’s for coal. The third’s the
wine-cellar.’ He tried the door. ‘It’s locked all right.’
He rattled the latch and shouted:</p>

<p>‘Hello—ello—<span class='it'>ello</span>! Charles! Are you there? Is anyone
there?’</p>

<p>A booming echo came rolling back along the low
roof. It said ‘There’, and ‘Charles’, and died. Something
fell with a clang.</p>

<p>Miss Silver turned her torch down, picked up a
metal bar, and put it into Archie’s hand.</p>

<p>‘What is it?’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Miss Silver—she gave a slight cough—
‘I believe it is called a jemmy—an instrument in use
amongst burglars. I, of course, have my reputation to
consider. But if you—’ she coughed again. ‘It really
seems quite providential—doesn’t it?’</p>

<p>‘Heaven helps those who help themselves, in fact,’
responded Archie.</p>

<p>Miss Silver proceeded to give him expert advice as to
lock-breaking.</p>

<p>The silence of the inner cell had not been stirred. It
settled heavily and more heavily still. It was half an
hour since Charles had spoken and Margaret answered
him. Their torment of thirst had begun. It was long past
midday, and hope waned as the light wanes after
sunset. Their sun had set. The little light of hope that
had remained failed and was forgotten. They were
forgotten in a dark, hidden place out of mind.</p>

<p>The first sound was faint. It jarred that settling
silence—but so faintly that it might have been some
ghostly mirage of sound, causeless and unreal.</p>

<p>Margaret stirred, moved her hand to meet Charles
Moray’s hand, and turned her head to say on a
whispering breath,</p>

<p>‘Charles—’</p>

<p>His hand pressed hers.</p>

<p>‘Did you hear it?’</p>

<p>‘Yes.’</p>

<p>‘Charles—what was it?’</p>

<p>The silence settled again. That faint sound had
reached them when the wine-cellar door gave way
with a crash and set all the underground echoes calling.</p>

<p>Miss Silver flashed her torch round the well-stocked
bins, up to the low roof, down again to the flagged
floor. At the far end a cask or two, packing-cases, a
shred of white torn paper. She picked it up.</p>

<p>‘They’ve been here, Mr Millar. I think we’ll move
those casks.’</p>

<p>On the other side of the casks and of that thick,
deadening wall Margaret was listening as she had not
listened since Freddy Pelham had left her in the dark
alone. She could hear nothing.</p>

<p>But she had heard something. Suppose they came
and went away again. The thought pierced to the quick.
She tried to call out, but the terror of the thought took
away her voice; it failed in a dry throat. She tried to
tell Charles to shout. Her hand clung to his.</p>

<p>And suddenly the door swung in. The silence broke
into harsh sound. The bolts went loudly back, and
the door swung in. The noise was overwhelming.
Archie’s shout shook the cellar, and a dancing, flashing
ray struck her eyes like a blow. Darkness closed over her.</p>

<p>When she opened her eyes again, someone was giving
her water to drink, and it was light. She looked at
the light and wondered at it. Grey London light, but
how beautiful! She drank again. Water—how lovely!
Light—air—water! She drew a long, long breath, and
came back from the half-way place between dream and
waking. She was lying on the sofa in the study. A little
woman in a drab raincoat was holding water to her
lips in a cracked breakfast-cup.</p>

<p>Margaret took another lovely sip and sat up. She
saw Charles, dusty, bloodstained, unshaven, his face
smeared and dirtier than anything she could have
imagined. He put down the cup from which he had
been drinking, and came to her and kissed her. It didn’t
matter how dirty his face was. How lovely! How lovely
to be alive—to be together! The most exquisite
happiness filled her. She began to cry.</p>

<p>Then all of a sudden she remembered Freddy
Pelham, and her mother waiting in Vienna. She said,</p>

<p>‘Freddy—someone must stop him!’</p>

<p>She sprang up.</p>

<p>‘Charles—it isn’t too late! It isn’t, it <span class='it'>isn’t</span> too late—<span class='it'>Archie</span>!’</p>

<p>She turned to him with outstretched hands, and
Archie Millar turned away.</p>

<p>Charles Moray put his arm about her.</p>

<p>‘Better tell her,’ he said in a low voice—he spoke to
Miss Silver. Then, ‘Margaret—’</p>

<p>Miss Silver spoke in her colourless tones:</p>

<p>‘Miss Langton, your mother is quite safe. Mr Pelham
has been—arrested.’</p>

<p>Margaret leaned against Charles. She felt weak and
cold. Miss Silver took her hand and patted it. Her touch
was kind.</p>

<p>‘I bought a paper on my way here. Mr Pelham was
arrested in his flight. His aeroplane crashed in the fog.
The pilot was picked up by a Channel boat. Mr Pelham
was drowned. Your mother, my dear, is quite safe.’</p>

<p>Margaret tried to say ‘Thank you’. She knew Miss
Silver was kind. She knew that there had been
deliverance. But she had come to the end of her strength.</p>

<p>She turned and hid her face on Charles Moray’s
dusty coat.</p>

<hr class='tbk'/>

<p>Part of a letter from Miss Margot Standing to her
friend Stephanie:</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p> ... I’ll tell you all about it at Christmas. We’ll
have a lovely time. And you shall see Archie. We’re
not engaged, because Papa says I’m not old enough
to be engaged, and Archie says so too. Archie’s
<span class='it'>frightfully</span> in love with me—at least he won’t say he
is, but I’m sure he <span class='it'>is</span>. And Papa likes him most frightfully.
I think I shall have a sapphire ring. But I don’t
want to be married for simply ages.</p>

<p>Margaret and Charles are going to be married
next week. I would love to be Margaret’s bridesmaid,
but she isn’t going to have any because of her
stepfather. He was a nice little man, and I expect
she’s frightfully sorry about it. He was drowned in
an aeroplane, so she and Charles aren’t really going
to have a wedding—they’re just going to be married.
I call it <span class='it'>frightfully dull</span> ...</p>

</div>

  </body>
</html>
