<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h2>
			<p>Margot Standing ran out into the street. Her heart was thumping so hard that it shook her; her legs shook under her as she ran. Her world had been so violently shaken that it seemed to be falling about her. She was really only conscious of two things‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat she was frightened, oh, dreadfully frightened; and that it was dreadfully difficult to get her breath. She didn‚Äôt feel as if she could go on running; but she <em>must</em> go on running, because if she didn‚Äôt, the man might come out of the house and catch her. The thought terrified her so much that she went on running even after it seemed as if she could not breathe at all.</p>
			<p>It was quite dark and foggy, and she did not know in the least where she was going; she only ran, and went on running until her outstretched hands came up hard against a wall. The shock upset her balance. Her left shoulder hit the wall. She swung half round and then fell in a heap. She had not breath enough to cry out. She lay at the foot of the wall with a sense of having come to the end of anything she could do. There was nothing but fog, and darkness, and cold wet stones.</p>
			<p>After a few minutes her breath began to come back. Presently she moved and sat up. She wasn‚Äôt hurt, but her bare hands were scraped. She had run out of the house in Gregson Street without any gloves on; her gloves were on the table where the cocktails were. When she thought about the gloves, she could smell the strong sickly smell, and she could see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPercy Smith standing there and holding out a little glass full of yellow stuff with a cherry and a grape bobbing about in it.</p>
			<p>Sitting there on rough, wet cobblestones, Margot began to cry. She cried with all her might for ten minutes, and then began to feel better. She had got away. If he hadn‚Äôt gone out of the room‚ÅÝ‚ÄîMargot dabbed her eyes with her very wet handkerchief and saw herself sitting there quite stupid and dumb with the cocktail in her hand, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPercy Smith going out of the room and saying he wouldn‚Äôt be a minute.</p>
			<p>She scrambled up on to her knees because she didn‚Äôt want to see that picture any more. It made her feel exactly like she had felt when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBeauchamp took her to the top of the Eiffel Tower and told her to look over. Margot had looked for a moment; and then she wouldn‚Äôt have looked again for anything in the world. To stand on the edge of a frightful drop and to think how easily one might fall over it‚ÅÝ‚Äî</p>
			<p>Margot got right up on to her feet and began to walk blindly forward over the cobblestones. The lights of a car flashed in front of her. Sounds of traffic came through the fog. Her foot struck against the kerb at the edge of a pavement. She turned to the right and walked along slowly without the least idea of where she was going.</p>
			<p>She had been walking for half an hour before her mind really began to work again. Someone knocked against her, and a shrill cockney voice said, ‚ÄúLook out! Where are you going?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot moved on, startled. The question repeated itself: ‚ÄúWhere are you going? Where‚ÅÝ‚Äîare‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou‚ÅÝ‚Äîgoing?‚Äù It was this question that woke her up: ‚ÄúWhere are you going?‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúI haven‚Äôt anywhere to go.‚Äù ‚ÄúWhere are you going?‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know.‚Äù ‚ÄúWhere are you going?‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúOh, I haven‚Äôt got anywhere to go to.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She had cried so violently that no more tears came into her eyes, but she felt as if she were crying deep inside her. It was a frightful thing not to have anywhere to go to. She couldn‚Äôt possibly go back to Grange Square, where Egbert and somebody else‚ÅÝ‚Äîsomebody who had answered the bell that William ought to have answered‚ÅÝ‚Äîwere waiting to get their orders about <em>removing</em> her. Even after being so dreadfully frightened by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPercy Smith she could still shake and turn cold when she remembered that vague, suggestive word.</p>
			<p>What was she going to do? What did you do when you were a girl and you hadn‚Äôt got anywhere to go to, and you didn‚Äôt know anyone who would help you, and you only had a shilling in the world. If Papa had only let her have friends like other girls. But he had never let her know anyone except at school. And <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝBeauchamp was on her way to Australia. It had been her business to see that Margot didn‚Äôt pick up acquaintances in the holidays. Margot would have given a great many things that she did not possess to have had just one acquaintance now.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHale‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut if it were <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHale who was giving those orders‚ÅÝ‚Äîperhaps it was‚ÅÝ‚Äîperhaps it was <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHale who was going to tell Egbert and William‚ÅÝ‚Äîno, it <em>couldn‚Äôt</em> be William‚ÅÝ‚Äîto <em>remove</em> her.</p>
			<p>She couldn‚Äôt go home. Oh, it wasn‚Äôt home any more; it was only a house where people were planning horrible things. It was Egbert‚Äôs house; it wasn‚Äôt hers. She hadn‚Äôt got anywhere to go to‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe hadn‚Äôt got a home‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe hadn‚Äôt got anything.</p>
			<p>These things kept coming into her mind like a lot of aimless people struggling into a room and drifting out again; they didn‚Äôt do anything, they just came in, and drifted about, and went away.</p>
			<p>Margot went on walking, and the aimless thoughts kept on coming and going. The thick moisture that filled the air with fog began to condense and come down in rain. Soon she was very wet. The rain became heavier; it soaked through her blue serge coat and began to drop from the brim of her hat. The coat had a collar of grey fur. The rain collected on it and trickled down the back of her neck.</p>
			<p>Only that afternoon Margot had written to Stephanie that there was something frightfully romantic about being a penniless orphan. It didn‚Äôt feel a bit romantic now; it felt cold, and frightening, and desperately miserable.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
