<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>X</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-10" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter X</h2>
			<p>The bus went creaking and clanking on its way. It was quite full, and it smelt very strongly of fog, petrol and wet umbrellas. Charles sat opposite the man with the muffler and looked at him curiously. He had a square, fresh face and very blue eyes; he had the look of a man who has followed the sea. Forty had been with Mr.¬ÝStanding on his yacht. But Forty was deaf, and this man wasn‚Äôt deaf.</p>
			<p>Just on the impulse Charles leaned across and addressed him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòBad fog‚ÅÝ‚Äîisn‚Äôt it? I‚Äôm glad I‚Äôm not at sea.‚Äô</p>
			<p>The man looked at Charles after a pleasant puzzled fashion and shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòSorry, sir, but I‚Äôm deaf.‚Äô</p>
			<p>Charles raised his voice:</p>
			<p>‚ÄòI only said it was a bad fog.‚Äô</p>
			<p>He shook his head again and smiled deprecatingly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòIt‚Äôs no good, sir. Hill 60 going up was the last thing I heard.‚Äô</p>
			<p>The other people in the bus looked round with interest. A fat woman in a brown velvet dress and stout laced boots said, ‚ÄòWhat a shime!‚Äô</p>
			<p>Charles sat back and closed his eyes. Grey Mask had said Forty was deaf‚ÅÝ‚Äîand that this was Forty, Charles had now no more doubt than that he himself was Charles Moray; yet Forty, apologized to by a casual stranger in a fog‚ÅÝ‚Äîno, let‚Äôs get it clearer, Forty taken unawares‚ÅÝ‚Äîhad answered a casual stranger‚Äôs apology. But Forty in a crowded, lighted bus not only maintained that he was stone deaf but produced a picturesque reminiscence to account for it. What did it mean?</p>
			<p>Charles thought that he would find out what it meant; and when presently the man in the muffler got out of the bus, Charles got out too.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòThe one point about this perfectly beastly weather,‚Äô he explained to Archie over dinner, ‚Äòis that you can follow a fellow without his spotting you. I followed him very successfully and tracked him to his lair. He appears to be lodging at No.¬Ý5 Gladys Villas, Chiswick. The house belongs to an old lady and her daughter who‚Äôve been there for about forty years‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI found that out at the grocer‚Äôs. But there I‚Äôm stuck. The old lady‚Äôs name is Brown, and she‚Äôs the widow of a sea captain. I could have found out lots more of that sort of thing. But how am I going to find out the things I want to know about Forty?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòGet a trained sleuth to do it,‚Äô said Archie firmly. ‚ÄòThat‚Äôs what they‚Äôre for. I can put you on to one if you like.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòA good man?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòA sleuthess,‚Äô said Archie impressively. ‚ÄòA perfect wonder‚ÅÝ‚Äîhas old Sherlock boiled.‚Äô</p>
			<p>Charles frowned.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòA <span class="it">woman</span>?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòWell, a sleuthess. She‚Äôs not exactly what you‚Äôd call a little bit of fluff, you know.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòWhat‚Äôs her name?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòMaud Silver.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòMrs.¬Ýor Miss?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòMy dear old bean!‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòWell‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhich is she?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòSingle as a Michaelmas daisy,‚Äô said Archie.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòBut who is she? And why drag in a sleuthess when there are lots of perfectly good sleuths?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòWell,‚Äô said Archie, ‚ÄòI put my money on Maud. I only saw her once, and she didn‚Äôt make my heart beat any faster. I went to see her because my cousin Emmeline Foster was in the dickens of a hole. She‚Äôd done one of the silly sort of things women manage to do‚ÅÝ‚Äîcan‚Äôt imagine how they think of them myself. I can‚Äôt give you the lurid details; but what it amounted to was that she‚Äôd gone and lost the family jewels, and she was shakin‚Äô in her shoes for fear her mother-in-law would find out. Well, little Maudie got them back. No fuss, no scandal, no painful family scene‚ÅÝ‚Äîa <span class="it">very</span> neat piece of work. That‚Äôs only one story. I know half a dozen more, because Emmeline just rushed round with her mouth open tellin‚Äô all her friends what a wonder Maudie was, and all the friends who had private scrapes of their own went and bleated to Maudie about ‚Äôem, and when Maudie had got ‚Äôem all straightened up again, they came back and told Emmeline, and Emmeline told me.‚Äô</p>
			<p>Charles took down Miss Maud Silver‚Äôs address. If she specialized in getting silly women out of messes, she would just about suit his book. He put the address away in his pocket-book, and as he looked up he caught sight of Freddy Pelham dining at a table with Massiter, the artist, and a large, dull, respectable couple whom Charles did not know. Massiter had the air of a man who is bored to the verge of coma. Freddy looked so forlorn that Charles felt a genuine pang of pity.</p>
			<p>Later, when he and Archie were going out, he found himself almost touching Freddy in the doorway, and in a moment Freddy was shaking him by the hand.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòMy dear fellow! You‚Äôre back‚ÅÝ‚Äîyes, you‚Äôre back! Dear me, you‚Äôre back again!‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòAs you see,‚Äô said Charles.</p>
			<p>Freddy dropped the hand he had been shaking; his little grey eyes looked deprecatingly at the young man whom his step-daughter had jilted; his rather high and plaintive voice became more plaintive still.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòMy dear fellow‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou‚Äôre back! Pleased to see you‚ÅÝ‚Äîvery pleased to see you!‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòI‚Äôm pleased to be back,‚Äô said Charles cheerfully.</p>
			<p>At another time it might have amused him to observe Freddy‚Äôs embarrassment. He plunged straight into the cause of it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòBy the way, can you give me Margaret‚Äôs address?‚Äô</p>
			<p>Freddy blinked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòMargaret‚Äôs <span class="it">address</span>‚ÅÝ‚Äîer‚ÅÝ‚Äî<span class="it">Margaret‚Äôs</span> address?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòYes.‚Äô</p>
			<p>Freddy blinked again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòYou‚Äôve heard that she‚Äôs deserted me,‚Äô he said. ‚ÄòI don‚Äôt know why girls can‚Äôt stay at home. But it seems to take them all the same way. Now there‚Äôs Nora Canning‚ÅÝ‚Äînow let me see, was it Nora? Or is Nora the married one, and am I thinking of Nancy? Or is it Nancy who is the married one? And who the deuce did she marry? It wasn‚Äôt Monty Soames, and it wasn‚Äôt Rex Fossiter. Now who <span class="it">was</span> it she married? I know I was at the wedding, because I remember they gave us deuced bad champagne‚ÅÝ‚Äîand Esther couldn‚Äôt go, but Margaret and I went‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äô He broke off, and looked down like a shy child. ‚ÄòYou‚Äôve heard about Esther?‚Äô</p>
			<p>Charles felt horribly sorry for him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòYes, I‚ÅÝ‚Äîheard. I can‚Äôt say how sorry I am. She‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere was something about her.‚Äô</p>
			<p>Freddy wrung his hand.</p>
			<p>‚ÄòI know, my boy, I <span class="it">know</span>. No one like her‚ÅÝ‚Äîwas there? Can‚Äôt think what she ever saw in me. Well, well, I‚Äôm glad to see you back, Charles. She always liked you very much. I‚Äôd be sorry to think there was any sort of feeling now you‚Äôve come back.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòOh, there isn‚Äôt.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòBygones be bygones, eh? That‚Äôs right! Stupid to keep things up‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs what I‚Äôve always said‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat‚Äôs the sense of keeping things up? I‚Äôve always said that. I remember now saying that twenty years ago to Fennicker‚ÅÝ‚Äîno, if it was Fennicker it couldn‚Äôt have been twenty years ago, because that Fennicker was in China until 1914, unless I‚Äôm thinking of the other one‚ÅÝ‚Äîtheir mothers married cousins you know‚ÅÝ‚Äîdeuced pretty women both of them‚ÅÝ‚Äîlovely shoulders. Women don‚Äôt have shoulders now, eh? Nothing but bones‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs what I say‚ÅÝ‚Äî<span class="it">scraggy</span>, my boy‚ÅÝ‚Äîand it don‚Äôt make them look any younger‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòWhat about Margaret‚Äôs address?‚Äô said Charles quickly. If he had to wait whilst Freddy disentangled the Fennickers for a few generations or so, he would do so; but there seemed to be just a chance of escape; Archie was punching him in the ribs. ‚ÄòWhat about Margaret‚Äôs address?‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòI thought she might have stayed with me,‚Äô said Freddy. ‚ÄòBut I don‚Äôt want you to think we quarrelled‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI shouldn‚Äôt like anyone to think that.‚Äô</p>
			<p>‚ÄòCan you give me her address?‚Äô</p>
			<p>It took Charles another ten minutes to get it, and Archie had reached groaning point before they finally got away.</p>
			<p>They walked the short distance to the show Archie had insisted upon. The fog was still heavy. Charles found himself thinking curiously and angrily about Margaret. Where was she? What was she thinking? What was she doing? He had a furious desire to know, to break away from Archie and to walk to the address which Freddy Pelham had given him.</p>
			<p>At intervals during the evening that desire to know what Margaret was doing swept over him again. If he could have looked into Margaret‚Äôs room, he would have seen nothing, because the room was dark. It was very dark and very cold, because there was no light and no fire.</p>
			<p>Margaret Langton lay face downwards in front of the cold hearth; her forehead rested upon her crossed arms. The fire had gone out a long time ago. It was hours since she had moved at all, but the hot, slow tears went on soaking into the black stuff of her sleeve. Her right arm was crossed over her left arm; her forehead rested upon it. The stuff of her sleeve was quite wet through.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
