<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XV</span></h2>
			<p>It was next day that Charles Moray walked into Miss Silver’s office by appointment. The exercise-book with his name lay open before her. The pages had been written on in a small neat hand.</p>
			<p>Miss Silver sat upright and knitted. She appeared to have finished the grey stocking he had seen last time and to have embarked on a second one, for only about three inches of dark grey ribbing depended from the steel needles. She nodded to Charles in an absent way and let him take a seat and say “Good-morning” before she opened her lips. Then she said,</p>
			<p>“It is a great pity you did not come to me before.”</p>
			<p>“Why, Miss Silver?”</p>
			<p>Miss Silver heaved a gentle, depressed little sigh.</p>
			<p>“It is a pity. You would like to hear my report? I will begin with Jaffray.”</p>
			<p>“Jaffray?”</p>
			<p>“The man you wished me to report upon, lodging with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Brown at 5 Gladys Villas, Chiswick.”</p>
			<p>“Yes. What have you been able to find out?”</p>
			<p>“You shall hear.” She glanced at the exercise-book, but continued to knit. “He was until recently in the employment of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing the millionaire, on whose family affairs you also wished for a report.”</p>
			<p>“In his employment?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, as valet and general factotum when he was on board his yacht.”</p>
			<p>“Do you mean that Jaffray remained on the yacht?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, that is what I mean. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing liked to have someone there who knew his ways. He used to wire: ‘Coming on board such and such a time,’ and Jaffray would have everything ready for him. He could afford to pay for his fancies. I found <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Brown a very pleasant, talkative person. She seemed to have a very high opinion of Jaffray, who has lodged with her on and off for the last nine years.”</p>
			<p>“Was he with <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing on his last cruise?”</p>
			<p>“Oh yes⁠—he has only just got back.” Miss Silver took out a needle, looked at it for a moment, and then began another row. “<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Brown seemed to think it a little strange that Jaffray was not more upset at the loss of so good an employer. She said she wondered he didn’t trouble at not having any work. And I think she was worrying about whether he would be able to go on paying his rent regularly. I have always found worried people very willing to talk. The more worried they are, the more they will tell you.”</p>
			<p>Charles leaned forward.</p>
			<p>“Is Jaffray really deaf? Did <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Brown tell you that?”</p>
			<p>Miss Silver pressed her lips together for a moment.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Brown talked a good deal about what she called <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jaffray’s affliction. She said he lost his hearing in the war at the time Hill 60 was blown up. She very much deplored the disadvantage to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Jaffray in his search for a new situation, and she repeated more than once that she could not understand why he did not take it more to heart.”</p>
			<p>“<span class="it">Is</span> he deaf?” said Charles.</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Brown spoke as if he were.”</p>
			<p>“But <span class="it">is</span> he?”</p>
			<p>The needles flashed and clicked. Miss Silver said, “I don’t think so, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Moray.”</p>
			<p>Charles gave a violent start.</p>
			<p>“You don’t think he’s deaf at all!”</p>
			<p>“No, I don’t think he’s deaf. But I’m not sure. I will report to you again. I think I can find out. Now as to the other matter on which you wished me to report. I am really extremely sorry that you did not come to me before.”</p>
			<p>“What has happened?” Charles spoke apprehensively.</p>
			<p>“Miss Standing has disappeared,” said Miss Silver in mournful tones.</p>
			<p>A hideous sense of responsibility weighed Charles to the ground. He had known that the girl was threatened, and because of Margaret he had held his tongue. He turned a hard face on Miss Silver.</p>
			<p>“How can she have disappeared?”</p>
			<p>“I will tell you what I know. She left her house in Grange Square yesterday afternoon. She had a trunk with her, and she took a taxi to Waterloo Station. There she took another taxi and drove to <abbr>No.</abbr> 125 Gregson Street. She had engaged herself to go there as secretary to a man who calls himself Percy Smith. It was extremely ill-advised of her to take this step. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Smith is not a man of good character. He has been mixed up in one or two very nasty scandals.”</p>
			<p>“Go on,” said Charles, “what has happened?”</p>
			<p>Miss Silver dropped her knitting in her lap.</p>
			<p>“I can only tell you what happened up to a certain point. Miss Standing had dropped her own name⁠—she called herself Esther Brandon.”</p>
			<p>“<span class="it">What!</span>” said Charles. “No⁠—go on!”</p>
			<p>“She called herself Esther Brandon. And she arrived at 125 Gregson Street at seven o’clock yesterday evening. She was only in the house for about half an hour. She left in a great hurry and without any luggage, and no one has any idea of where she went. So far I have not been able to trace her; but I certainly hope to do so.”</p>
			<p>Charles stared at the floor. Esther Brandon⁠—what on earth had Margot Standing to do with Esther Brandon? Chance⁠—coincidence⁠—no, not by a long chalk. If <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing’s daughter had taken Esther Brandon’s name, it was because the name meant something to her. Now what did it mean?</p>
			<p>“If you would tell me everything, it would be easier, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Moray,” said Miss Silver.</p>
			<p>He stopped looking at the floor and looked at her.</p>
			<p>“Don’t I tell you everything?”</p>
			<p>She shook her head.</p>
			<p>“You are like the people who let a house and keep one room locked up. You needn’t be afraid that I shall open the door when you are not there. But it would be easier for me to serve you if you would give me the key.”</p>
			<p>“It’s not my key, Miss Silver,” said Charles.</p>
			<p>Miss Silver took up her knitting again.</p>
			<p>“I see,” she said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
