<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<div><h1>Chapter XI</h1></div>

<p>Charles sat in Miss Maud Silver’s waiting-room. He
was not one of those who wait patiently. Having arrived
at ten o’clock, he was exasperated to find that he
was not the first upon the scene; a murmur of female
voices stimulated his annoyance. ‘Probably talking
millinery,’ was his embittered comment.</p>

<p>Then all of a sudden through the thin partition came
a sharp little cry of ‘<span class='it'>I can’t!</span>’ The cry had a quality
which did not suggest millinery. There was a silence;
and then the murmur of voices went on again.</p>

<p>It was almost half past ten before the inner door
opened and a woman came out. She kept her head
turned away and passed quickly out on to the landing.</p>

<p>Charles entered Miss Silver’s office with a good deal
of curiosity, and found himself in a small, light room,
very bare—furnished, to the first glance at any rate, by
a chair, a writing-table and Miss Silver herself. The
writing-table was immense, of the large old-fashioned
flat kind with drawers all round it; the top was piled
high with exercise-books of different colours very neatly
stacked.</p>

<p>Miss Silver sat in front of a pad of pink blotting-paper.
She was a little person with no features, no
complexion, and a great deal of tidy mouse-coloured
hair done in a large bun at the back of her head. She inclined
her head slightly, but did not offer to shake hands.</p>

<p>Charles introduced himself, mentioned Archie’s
name, mentioned Emmeline Foster’s name, and
received no indication that Miss Silver had any
recollection of either of them.</p>

<p>‘What can I do for you, Mr Moray?’ The voice was
rather a hesitating one; a quiet voice without tone.</p>

<p>Charles began to feel sorry he had come.</p>

<p>‘Well—I wanted some information.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver picked up a brown copy-book, wrote
Charles’s name at the head of a page, asked for and
added his address, and then inquired what sort of
information he wanted.</p>

<p>Charles did not mean to tell her very much—not at
first anyhow. He said,</p>

<p>‘I want information about a man who is lodging at 5
Gladys Villas, Chiswick. He’s a middle-aged man with
a fresh colour. I don’t know his name. I want to know
anything you can find out about him; and I most
particularly want to know whether he is really deaf.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver wrote in the copy-book. Then she asked,</p>

<p>‘Anything more?’</p>

<p>‘Yes,’ said Charles frowning. ‘I want to know something
about Mr Standing’s family affairs. You know
the man I mean—he’s been in all the papers.’</p>

<p>‘His affairs,’ said Miss Silver, ‘are largely public
property. I can tell you a good deal about them now.
He was washed overboard whilst he was yachting off
Majorca, and he didn’t leave any will. His immense
fortune will therefore be inherited by his only child. Her
name is Margot. She is just eighteen, and until a week
ago was at school in Switzerland. Was that what you
wanted to know?’</p>

<p>Charles shook his head.</p>

<p>‘Everyone knows that. I want news from day to day
of what is happening. I want to know who is in the
house with the girl—what she does—who her friends
are. I want to be told at once if she goes away, or if
there is any sudden development in her affairs. I’m
afraid it’s all rather indefinite; but I expect you can see
the sort of thing I want.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver had been using the right-hand page of the
brown copy-book; she now wrote something quickly on
the left. Then she said;</p>

<p>‘I see what you want. But you haven’t told me why
you want it.’</p>

<p>‘No.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver smiled suddenly. The smile had the most
extraordinary effect upon her face; it was just as if an
expressionless mask had been lifted and a friendly,
pleasant face had looked out from behind it.</p>

<p>‘It’s no good, Mr Moray.’</p>

<p>Charles said, ‘I beg your pardon?’</p>

<p>The smile was still there.</p>

<p>‘I can’t take your case unless you’re going to trust
me. I can’t work for a client who only tells me snippets
and odds and ends. “Trust me all in all, or not at all” is
my motto. Tennyson is out of fashion, but I admire him
very much, and that is my motto.’</p>

<p>Charles looked at her with the suspicion of a
twinkle. What a Victorian little person! He became
aware of a half-knitted stocking on her lap, still needles
bristling. It seemed to him very appropriate. He
twinkled, and replied to her quotation with another:</p>

<p>‘The Taran-Tula Indians say that you may catch a
snake by the tail, but you should never trust a woman.’</p>

<p>Miss Silver looked sorry for the Taran-Tula Indians.</p>

<p>‘Poor ignorant heathens!’ she said; and then, ‘Of
course, if one has been very badly treated, it makes one
cautious. But I can’t take your case unless you are
frank with me. Frankness on your part—discretion on
mine.’</p>

<p>She picked up the stocking and began to knit, holding
the needles in the German way. After one round she
looked at Charles and smiled again.</p>

<p>‘Well, Mr Moray?’</p>

<p>Charles told her everything that he had told Archie
Millar, and came away wondering whether he had
made a fool of himself.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
