<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-22" epub:type="chapter">
			<div><h1>Chapter XXII</h1></div>

<p>Whilst Charles was interviewing Miss Silver, Miss
Greta Wilson was writing to Stephanie Polson.</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p>Oh, Stephanie, I’ve had the most thrilling adventures.
I’m really having them still. It’s frightfully
exciting, and you’ll be frightfully angry with me,
because I can’t tell you about them—at least I can
only tell you bits, because I promised Charles and
Margaret I wouldn’t tell anyone the other bits—at
least not till they said I could. So you’ll just have to
be frightfully angry. I’m staying with Margaret, and
I can’t even tell you her name or give you my
address, because that’s one of the bits I promised not
to. Margaret is a dear, and so is Charles. Margaret
has known him for years and years and years, but I
do believe he really likes me best, because he took
me out for the whole day yesterday which was
Sunday, and he didn’t take Margaret, though it’s her
day at home. She works in a hat-shop every day, and
she doesn’t get home till half-past six—so it would be
very dull for me, only Charles says he will come and
cheer me up. Archie would come too if he could.
Archie is another friend of Margaret’s. He and
Charles are friends too. It’s frightfully jolly everyone
being friends, after having such a dreadfully dull
time. Archie can’t come and take me out like Charles
can, because he has to go to his office. He says he is an
oddment in a publishing firm. He says they only took
him because his uncle was in it. He says he is rotten
at it. But I think he is frightfully clever—he knows
lots of quotations out of Shakespeare and other people
like that. I don’t know whether I like him best or
Charles. Charles is an explorer, but he isn’t exploring
just now. He is the handsomest. He has grey eyes
and a most frightfully romantic frown, but he isn’t
quite as tall as Archie is. Archie is five feet eleven
and three-quarters, and he says if he hadn’t been
brought up frightfully strictly and simply made to
tell the truth, he would call it six foot. He has got
blue eyes, but not many eyelashes—just ordinary,
you know. But Charles has a lot of black eyelashes
and frightfully black eyebrows. They go all twisty
when he is cross. I shouldn’t like them to go all
twisty at me.</p>

<p>Saturday was the first day I was with Margaret,
and Charles and Archie came to tea, and we all went
to the cinema and saw a most frightfully thrilling
drama—only I can’t tell you about it now. Archie
came home with us, but Charles rushed off in a
frightfully sudden sort of way as soon as we came
out. On Sunday morning he came quite early with a
car, and he said would I like to go down to Bognor,
and I said I would, and we went. He didn’t ask
Margaret.</p>

<p>In the evening he and Archie came to supper.
They brought their supper with them because
Margaret said she hadn’t any. Archie brought
sardines and bananas, and Charles all sorts of
exciting things—lots more than we could eat, so
Margaret and I are eating them up—they are frightfully
good. He brought chocolates too—really
thrilling ones. I think I really do like Charles best.
But I like Archie too. After supper Mr Pelham
came in. He is Margaret’s stepfather, and I’m not
sure whether I ought to have said what his name
was, so don’t tell anyone and <span class='it'>tear my letter up</span>, because
I sort of promised Margaret I wouldn’t say anyone’s
name. But I think she’s a bit of a fuss, don’t you?
It isn’t as if you’d be seeing Egbert—is it? Margaret’s
stepfather is frightfully nice. They all call him
Freddy. He said I could too. I’ve never called such
an old person by their Christian name before, so I
didn’t do it at first—not till he seemed quite hurt
and said didn’t I like him. So of course I said I did,
and then I called him Freddy, only I got most
frightfully red when I did it, and they all laughed,
and Freddy said he felt most frightfully flattered,
and he said might he have the pleasure of taking me
to a matinee, and what would I like to see, and could
I come on Wednesday? But I said couldn’t it be
Saturday so Margaret could come too? And he said
‘All right’, and he asked Charles to come, and
Charles said he would. He didn’t like it when Freddy
asked me, nor did Margaret. I don’t know why they
didn’t. Archie couldn’t come because he was playing
a football match. Charles says he is very good at it.</p>

<p>I mustn’t write any more, because I shall use all
Margaret’s paper, and I’ve only got a shilling to buy
any more. When you’ve only got a shilling, there are
hundreds of things you want to buy.</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:right;margin-right:1em;'>MARGOT</p>

</div>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
