<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXVIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-38" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter XXXVIII</h2>
			<p>Charles spent the afternoon going through a stack of papers at Thornhill Square. It was about five o‚Äôclock when he finished with them and went out by the garden way. It was dusk but not yet dark. The alley-way was much darker than the garden.</p>
			<p>When he had shut and locked the door in the wall, he stood for a moment, and then turned to the right instead of to the left. The impulse which made him do this was so slight and undefined that it took no definite shape in his mind. He turned to the right instead of to the left and walked slowly along the alley-way.</p>
			<p>On his right were the other gardens of Thornhill Square, on his left the smaller, narrower gardens of George Street. On both sides, brick walls broken at intervals by wooden doors. The slope of the ground hid all but the top storeys of the houses on the right; but the George Street houses showed back windows lighted and curtained.</p>
			<p>Charles had walked a dozen yards or so before it occurred to him that it was a sentimental desire to look at the Pelhams‚Äô house which had brought him out of his way. That he might have looked at it any day since his return was true; and it was equally true that he had never felt impelled to do so. He discovered the reason now. It was the empty house that drew him, because, empty, it held a thousand memories.</p>
			<p>He walked past the bend in the alley and stood where he had often stood waiting for Margaret to slip through the garden door. The house was larger than the others in the street‚ÅÝ‚Äîlarger, and older by a hundred years; a square Georgian house with modern additions. The study was an addition, and a hideous one. It jutted out, breaking the square lines, and from it a frightful iron stair descended to the garden. From the alley you could see the French window and the looped spirals of the stair.</p>
			<p>Charles had stood a hundred times where he was standing now and watched, for the window to open. He watched now with a definite feeling of what a fool he was to stare at an empty house and people it with memories. The dusk was darkening into night; the house was just a black square. He could no longer discern either window or stair, when suddenly the window sprang into view, a brilliant oblong crossed with black lines. It showed for a moment, and then a man pulled down the blind.</p>
			<p>The man was Freddy Pelham; and the sight of Freddy sent all those romantic memories back into the past to which they belonged; their place was taken by the practical consideration that here was a most excellent opportunity of tackling Freddy about the whole stupid Grey Mask imbroglio.</p>
			<p>Charles tried the garden door, found it open, and walked briskly up the garden path. The iron stair was wet and slippery under foot, the hand-rail coldly insecure‚ÅÝ‚Äîa beastly contraption like seaside lodgings. He rapped on the window, and could have laughed at Freddy Pelham‚Äôs scared face when he raised the blind and peered into the darkness‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúProbably thinks it‚Äôs one of Grey Mask‚Äôs little lot.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy‚Äôs relief at recognizing Charles Moray was touching.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm all alone in the house, you see. And I shouldn‚Äôt be much use if it came to a rough-and-tumble with a burglar‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat? Now there was Hugo Byrne‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou remember Hugo‚ÅÝ‚Äîno, he was before your time‚ÅÝ‚Äîhis mother was Edith Peace, and his sister married one of the Dunlop Murrays‚ÅÝ‚Äîno relation of yours of course. Let me see, what was I going to tell you? Oh yes‚ÅÝ‚Äîburglars. Well, poor old Hugo got up in the middle of the night and thought he heard a burglar and‚ÅÝ‚Äîlet me see, did I tell you?‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe‚Äôd got his wife‚Äôs uncle down from Scotland staying with them‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe married Josephine Campbell, you know. No, no, not Josephine‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe was the dark one‚ÅÝ‚ÄîElizabeth Campbell. Yes, I‚Äôm sure it was Elizabeth, because she had red hair, and we used to call her Red Liz‚ÅÝ‚Äîbehind her back, you know, behind her back. And‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhere was I? Oh yes‚ÅÝ‚Äîpoor old Hugo and the burglar. Of course it turned out to be old Robert Campbell. And he never left them a penny. Rather too bad‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The study was in its usual condition of disorder. How Freddy ever found anything in it was a mystery. He appeared to have been making some slight attempt to clear things up.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFrightful mess‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat? Sit down‚ÅÝ‚Äîsit down. Here, put those photograph albums on the floor. No‚ÅÝ‚Äîperhaps better leave those. This chair now‚ÅÝ‚Äîwe can shift these papers. Nothing of importance there‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat? Only bills‚ÅÝ‚Äînothing to break one‚Äôs heart over, if some of them did get lost‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He tilted a confused mass of papers on to the floor.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThanks, I won‚Äôt sit,‚Äù said Charles. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm afraid I‚Äôm interrupting you. Fact is I wanted to ask you about something, and when I saw the light I thought I‚Äôd come up and get it over.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, what can I do for you? I don‚Äôt suppose I shall do much more here anyway. I thought I‚Äôd try and clear up some of this mess; but I‚Äôm off tomorrow, and there‚Äôs too much of it‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI can‚Äôt tackle it. Margaret‚Äôs coming up to say goodbye. I telephoned to her place to let her know I‚Äôd be here, and she‚Äôll come along as soon as she gets off. That‚Äôs why the garden door‚Äôs open‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe‚Äôll come along that way. Well, well, I shall be glad when I‚Äôm off. I don‚Äôt like saying goodbye‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat‚Äôs a fact. Stupid of me‚ÅÝ‚Äîisn‚Äôt it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He was fidgeting with the litter on the table. There was something pathetic about the aimless movements and the deprecating glances which accompanied them.</p>
			<p>Charles felt very sorry for him. He said,</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, I don‚Äôt know,‚Äù and then, ‚ÄúIt was about Margaret I wanted to speak to you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy brightened into curiosity.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAbout Margaret‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat? You don‚Äôt mean to say‚ÅÝ‚Äîno, no, of course not‚ÅÝ‚Äîmuch better let bygones be bygones. I remember Tommy Hadow now‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe got engaged to the second Jenkins girl‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI can‚Äôt for the life of me remember her name‚ÅÝ‚Äîsomething short. Dot? No. May? No, it wasn‚Äôt May.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs nothing of that sort,‚Äù said Charles firmly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, well, I‚Äôm sorry‚ÅÝ‚Äîin a way, I‚Äôm sorry. But all the same I don‚Äôt know that it does to bring these things on again. It didn‚Äôt answer in Tommy‚Äôs case. Separated in a year‚ÅÝ‚Äîand that‚Äôs worse than a broken engagement. Gwendoline! That was the girl‚Äôs name‚ÅÝ‚ÄîGwendoline Jenkins! And her sister married Sam Fortescue.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, it‚Äôs nothing of that sort,‚Äù said Charles. He thought Freddy vaguer than ever, and did not feel the slightest interest in the Jenkins family. ‚ÄúLook here, Freddy, I really do want to talk to you. Naturally you‚Äôve got Margaret‚Äôs interests very much at heart, and I thought perhaps if we put our heads together, we could do something to help her out of her present false position.‚Äù</p>
			<p>It was incredibly difficult. The words he was using seemed to him of a stilted ineptitude, a sort of cross between the Meanderings of Monty and the platitudes of the Reverend Mr.¬ÝBarlow.</p>
			<p>Freddy looked across the table at him with a curious fluttered expression.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCharles‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou distress me. I don‚Äôt think I understand. What‚Äôs all this about a false position?‚Äù He did not say, ‚ÄúAnd what has this got to do with you?‚Äù but there was just a hint of it in his manner.</p>
			<p>Charles plunged on:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMargaret is certainly in a false position. And look here, Freddy, you‚Äôre going abroad‚ÅÝ‚Äîyour plans are apparently very uncertain‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou may be away for years‚ÅÝ‚Äîanything may happen. I think you‚Äôll agree that Margaret ought not to be left‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù He hesitated for a word, and finally produced ‚Äúinvolved.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy rumpled his mouse-coloured hair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy dear boy, you distress me very much. Has Margaret been getting into debt? I‚Äôve offered her an allowance, and she won‚Äôt take it. I really don‚Äôt know why.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI wasn‚Äôt talking about debts.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut you said ‚Äòinvolved.‚Äô‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI didn‚Äôt mean debt. I think you must know what I mean‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù he looked away for a minute‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúin fact you do know. I want you to understand that I know too.‚Äù He paused, and added, ‚ÄúMargaret has told me why she broke off her engagement.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He looked back at Freddy and saw a blank, white face, small eyes peering, hands shaking. ‚ÄúGood Lord, what a blue funk he‚Äôs in!‚Äù Rather horrible to see poor little Freddy like that‚ÅÝ‚Äîhorrible to see anyone in such a ghastly funk. Why, the forehead under the mouse-coloured hair was streaming wet.</p>
			<p>Freddy put up one of those shaking hands and pushed the damp hair back.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat did she tell you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles repeated what Margaret had told him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe said you‚Äôd slipped into it when you were a boy. She said the affair was political‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut of course you won‚Äôt expect me to believe that. I don‚Äôt say you didn‚Äôt believe it when you were seventeen. I don‚Äôt know anything about that, and it doesn‚Äôt matter. But you know as well as I do now that this Grey Mask business is just a big criminal organization run for gain.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy put his head in his hands. The white wet face was hidden, but Charles felt that the terrified eyes still peered at him through the shaking fingers. A little contempt flavoured his pity. No wonder Margaret had had to bear the brunt if this was a sample of how Freddy went to bits in an emergency.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLook here, Freddy,‚Äù he said. Then, with sudden impatience. ‚ÄúFor heaven‚Äôs sake, man, pull yourself together! Don‚Äôt slump like that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>An inarticulate sound, half-sob, half-protest, came from behind Freddy‚Äôs hands.</p>
			<p>Charles walked up and down.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt want to reproach you‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôm not going to reproach you; but you must see that it‚Äôs up to you to try and get Margaret out of the mess you got her into. You can‚Äôt just go off abroad and leave her to it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Another sound. Charles made nothing of it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course she was an absolute fool to sign anything. She told me she put her name to two statements, both highly damaging. Those statements must be got back. That‚Äôs really what I‚Äôve come to talk to you about. When people are on the wrong side of the law like this Grey Mask crowd, there must be ways of doing a deal with them. That‚Äôs where you come in. You know them‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou‚Äôre in touch with them‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou‚Äôre in a position to‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy dropped his hands.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt understand. I can‚Äôt do anything.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSomething‚Äôs <span class="it">got</span> to be done.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy leaned back, his hands on his knees, his whole figure limp.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt know them. You must forgive me‚ÅÝ‚ÄîCharles, it was such a shock‚ÅÝ‚Äîto find that you had any knowledge of‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù He spoke in a series of jerks, and at the end of each short sentence his voice was almost gone.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI suppose it was. I want you to understand my position. I‚Äôm concerned for two people. Margaret‚Äôs one of them, and Greta Wilson is the other. I‚Äôm very deeply concerned for Greta, because I believe she is in a very dangerous position; and I‚Äôm so placed that I can‚Äôt do what I ought to do to protect Greta without running the risk of finding that Margaret is involved.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat do you mean?‚Äù said Freddy Pelham.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs obvious, isn‚Äôt it? Unless we can get back those two statements which you got Margaret to sign, I can‚Äôt put Greta under police protection. You heard her story about being followed by a strange car. I believe she was within an ace of being carried off then, just as I believe she was within an ace of slipping to her death under the bus last night. You know she was pushed. Do you know who pushed her?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy stiffened; everything about him seemed to go rigid. The effect was one of extreme terror, of a creature in a trap with every muscle tense‚ÅÝ‚Äîwaiting.</p>
			<p>Charles looked at him with something like horror.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFreddy! For heaven‚Äôs sake, don‚Äôt say you knew!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy shook his head. The tension relaxed. He said faintly,</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was a shock‚Äù; and then, ‚Äúshe slipped.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe slipped because she was pushed. I mean to know who pushed her. I mean to bring the whole damned crowd to justice. And I want you to help me. For Margaret‚Äôs sake‚ÅÝ‚Äîfor your own sake‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI want you to help me. I don‚Äôt ask you to appear in the matter at all. You can go off abroad tomorrow and be out of it all. If you‚Äôre wise, you‚Äôll keep out of it. I want to know who‚Äôs got those statements of Margaret‚Äôs.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGrey Mask,‚Äù said Freddy with a shudder.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho is Grey Mask?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy shuddered again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo‚ÅÝ‚Äîone‚ÅÝ‚Äîknows.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt you know?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Again that curious rigidity, that fixed stare of fear.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFreddy, pull yourself together! I‚Äôm not asking for anything that will compromise you‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI only want your help for Margaret. I can‚Äôt work in the dark. Give me a hint of whom to approach.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI can‚Äôt tell you anything.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLook here, Freddy, you‚Äôre forcing my hand. If you don‚Äôt help‚ÅÝ‚Äîif you <span class="it">won‚Äôt</span> help me, I shall have to take my own way. I shall have to take it more or less in the dark. Margaret may suffer‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou yourself may suffer. Don‚Äôt you see that the minute I move I may pull the whole thing down? If you‚Äôll help me, I believe we can get Margaret out, and I swear I‚Äôll do my best for you. But if I have to go on without knowing where I am, it may very easily mean the worst kind of smash.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy sat silent.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou see you force my hand. I can‚Äôt delay any longer. I can go to the police and tell them what I know or‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù he spoke very slowly and deliberately‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúI can go to Pullen and try to do a deal with him.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy Pelham started forward. His left hand gripped the table edge; his right fell fumbling on the handle of a drawer.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚ÄîPullen?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles laughed angrily.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt you know? I think you do. Well? Are you going to help me? Or am I to try Pullen or‚ÅÝ‚ÄîLenny Morrison?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Freddy‚Äôs mouth opened, but for a moment no sound came. Then in a whisper, he began to say ‚ÄúGo‚Äù; and having brought the word out once, it seemed as if he could not stop saying it:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGo‚ÅÝ‚Äîgo‚ÅÝ‚Äîgo‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles walked to the door. The scene had become as useless as it was painful. He walked to the door, and with his hand already on the knob, he turned.</p>
			<p>He saw the untidy littered room. He saw the untidy littered table. And he saw Freddy Pelham with an automatic in his hand. He saw Freddy‚Äôs face, different, quite hard, quite cool. He saw Freddy‚Äôs eyes, the eyes of a stranger. And he saw all these things in a flashing moment that could not be counted as time. It had the instantaneous character of thought. And before the next second followed, two things happened simultaneously‚ÅÝ‚ÄîFreddy Pelham fired, and Charles ducked. He heard the shot as a muffled sound that passed into the ringing of a thousand bells. He plunged down into darkness.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
