<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XL</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-40" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</h2>
			<p>Archie felt a tug at his sleeve. Margot had jumped up, scattering her chocolates. She hung on his arm, laughing and excited.</p>
			<p>“Archie, you didn’t guess, did you? Papa, I didn’t tell him. I wanted to frightfully, but I didn’t. So you see I <em>can</em> keep a promise. I didn’t tell him a single word⁠—did I, Archie? Archie, isn’t it <em>frightfully</em> exciting about Papa not being drowned? Papa, may I tell him <em>all</em> about it now? Because we’re very nearly engaged⁠—aren’t we, Archie? Papa, he won’t propose to me because he says I’m not old enough. Archie, if <em>Papa</em> says I’m old enough, will you do it properly? Papa⁠—”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing put a hand on her shoulder.</p>
			<p>“I want to talk to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Millar. Run away and play.”</p>
			<p>Margot pouted, then brightened.</p>
			<p>“My hands are a bit sticky. If I go and wash them, will that be long enough?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing gave her a push towards the door.</p>
			<p>“I’ll call you when I’m ready.”</p>
			<p>When she had gone, he turned a cool, hard gaze upon Archie.</p>
			<p>“So you think Margot’s too young to be engaged?”</p>
			<p>The back of Archie’s neck burned.</p>
			<p>“I don’t quite know when you came in, sir.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I heard you tell her she was too young. I agree with you. We’ll leave it at that. You didn’t, I take it, expect to find me here.”</p>
			<p>“I didn’t expect to find Margot. I came because Miss Silver told me to come.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, I know all about that. I have met Miss Silver. She tells me I am very considerably indebted both to you and to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Charles Moray. I am very glad to have the opportunity of thanking you and of explaining some of the rather extraordinary things that have been happening. Sit down, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Millar.”</p>
			<p>Archie sat down. He was irresistibly reminded of interviews, now happily remote, with his headmaster; there was the same feeling of unpreparedness.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing laughed suddenly. The atmosphere changed.</p>
			<p>“We’re being a bit solemn, aren’t we? That’s my fault, I’m afraid. I must have been a bit of a shock to you. Now Margot took me with perfect calm⁠—she merely remarked. ‘Oh, Papa, you’re <em>not</em> drowned! How frightfully nice!’ and at once proceeded to pour out a full account of some very curious adventures. Well, I’m beginning at the end of the story. I must go back a bit.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing sat forward in his chair.</p>
			<p>“I want to begin by saying something about all this rubbish that has appeared in the papers on the subject of my daughter’s legitimacy. I am sending a statement to the Press tomorrow. I married as a young man, and I am now a widower. My marriage did not take place in England. Margot is my legitimate daughter. I had <em>not</em> failed to provide for her future. I made my will fifteen years ago. The document was in the hands of my solicitor, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale senior. It was destroyed after his father’s death, and after my supposed death, by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> James Hale.”</p>
			<p>“He <em>was</em> in it then! Do you know, sir, it was Margot who wouldn’t let us go to him⁠—and a jolly good thing we didn’t. Charles Moray was tellin’ me all about it last night.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, James Hale was in it. And so, I regret to say, was my nephew Egbert. Well, that disposes of the will. About a year ago I became aware of the existence of a criminal conspiracy directed by a singularly cunning and able rascal. Certain things came to my knowledge; but I hadn’t a shred of evidence against anybody. Then, about two months ago, my man Jaffray came to me with a most extraordinary story. He was a good fellow whom I used as a sort of steward-cum-valet on my yacht. He’d been left stone deaf after shell-shock. Well, a queer thing happened⁠—he got his hearing back. He said it came quite suddenly one day when he was crossing Hammersmith Broadway. He said one minute everything was quiet, and the next the roar of the traffic nearly knocked him down. Well, he didn’t tell anyone except me. He said he wasn’t sure it would last. And then he had another reason. He went down to the yacht to get ready for my cruise, and he overheard a conversation between the understeward and my butler, Pullen. It was an appalling conversation. He came off and told me about it. Pullen and this man Ward were discussing the best way of murdering me⁠—that’s what it amounted to. Well, I thought things out, and I made up my mind to give them a helping hand. D’you see?”</p>
			<p>“Well, I don’t exactly.”</p>
			<p>“I might have called in the police, and I suppose I could have got Pullen and Ward. But I wanted the others. Most particularly, I wanted the man who was running the show, Grey Mask. I thought I’d let them think their plan had succeeded, and see if they didn’t come out into the open a bit. So I told Jaffray to see if he couldn’t get taken on as second murderer. He did it very well⁠—started by grumbling to Ward about his wages and one thing and another, got up some good red-hot Communist stuff, and let it off at discreet intervals. In the end Ward told him the whole thing. But Ward only knew Pullen⁠—and he didn’t know him as Pullen or as my butler. He didn’t know any of the others. Well, Jaffray and I fixed up a very nice high-class assassination. We lay off Majorca, and I hired a boat to hang round and pick me up after Jaffray had pushed me overboard on a dark, windy night, I’m a first-class swimmer, and I had a life-belt in case of accidents. It came off nicely enough. I went over to Paris and waited for news. Jaffray went back to London. And then the fun began. They came out into the open just as I hoped they would. James Hale gave himself away by saying there was no will⁠—he had handled it in my presence only a week before I sailed. My nephew Egbert also knew that there was a will⁠—I had acquainted him with the terms of it no farther back than last August. He and Hale trumped up a forged letter from me alluding to Margot being illegitimate. They staged the affair so that one of Hale’s clerks, a perfectly innocent young fellow, found the letter. It would all have been very clever if I had really been dead. What I want to say to you is this, I never dreamt of any risk for Margot⁠—it didn’t occur to me that Hale would get her back from Switzerland. As soon as Jaffray wrote and told me she was here alone, I came across. By the time I arrived she had disappeared. It was Jaffray who discovered her whereabouts. I decided that she was safe with Miss Langton. I was extremely anxious not to be recognized, as I had not yet got the evidence that I needed against Pullen and another man, the footman called William Cole. I was also extremely anxious to find out who was really running the show. On Tuesday, however, I made up my mind to fetch Margot away. I went with Jaffray and the car to fetch her. But she took fright. I had told Jaffray to tell her I was there. He said ‘<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing,’ and she jumped to the conclusion that it was her cousin Egbert who was trying to carry her off. Not unnaturally, she ran away.”</p>
			<p>“Yes, she told me. So that was it?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing nodded.</p>
			<p>“As you know, you upset my plans by taking her to a new address next day. It took me all day to find her. This morning Jaffray and I followed her in the car, and I sent Jaffray into Harridge’s with a note for her. She came at once, and I brought her here. A conversation which I myself overheard last night between Pullen and William Cole convinced me that I could not risk waiting any longer. The two men were arrested this morning. James Hale, I am sorry to say, got out of the country. My nephew has thrown himself upon my mercy. I believe him to be a mere tool. The man I want⁠—the man who’s at the back of everything, the cold-blooded ruffian who gave orders to have my daughter ‘removed,’ in other words murdered⁠—Millar, I’m no nearer knowing who he really is than I was when I began.”</p>
			<p>“He isn’t Hale?”</p>
			<p>“No, he’s not Hale⁠—though I believe that Hale knows who he is. I don’t believe any of the others do, and⁠—Hale’s out of the country.”</p>
			<p>The door opened and Margot came in with a doubtful air.</p>
			<p>“You didn’t call⁠—but you’ve been simply <em>ages</em>.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
