<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<div><h1>Chapter XIV</h1></div>

<p>Margot ran out of the drawing-room and down the
stairs. Half-way she stopped running and began to
walk quite slowly. Why on earth should she run away
from Egbert? It wasn’t his house yet, though he had
begun to behave as if it were.</p>

<p>She stopped, looked down, and saw her letter to
Stephanie sticking out of the pocket of her white
jumper. She thought she would go out and post it; but
it wanted a stamp. There were always stamps in the
study—</p>

<p>She stamped her letter and went to the post with it. It
wasn’t very nice out; the fog was coming up again, and
it was wet under foot although there had been no rain.</p>

<p>Margot let herself into the house with the feeling
that it was pleasanter after all to be indoors. If she had
only had some chocolates. But they were all gone, and
though Mr Hale had given her ten shillings ‘just to go
on with’, she would want that for the great adventure
of going out as a secretary. She would just have to
amuse herself with the rather exciting story which she
had left off to go and write to Stephanie. The bother
was, she had left the book in the corner of the drawing-room
sofa, and she had had enough of Egbert for one
afternoon.</p>

<p>She stopped at the drawing-room door and listened.
Perhaps he had gone away; there really wasn’t anything
for him to stay for. She felt sure that he had gone
away; but all the same she turned the handle very softly
and let the door swing open an inch or two before she
looked in.</p>

<p>Egbert was standing on a chair again, but this time it
was in front of another picture. He had his back to
Margot and to the sofa on which she had left her book.
She opened the door a little wider. She could see the
book lying there face downwards, half on the back of
the sofa and half on a sprawling purple cushion; and
she could see Egbert looking hard at the picture of a
very fat, bulging woman with about a hundred yards of
drapery slipping off her in every direction.</p>

<p>Margot made up her mind to risk it. The sofa was in
an angle between the wall and the window; if she was
quick and didn’t make a noise, she could get her book
without Egbert knowing anything about it. She slipped
into the room, reached the sofa, and had her hand on
the book, when Egbert suddenly jumped down.</p>

<p>For once in her life Margot moved quickly. Before
Egbert had time to turn round she had ducked behind
the sofa, and when he went to the bell and stood there
with his finger on it, she crawled along inch by inch
until she was sitting on the floor between the sofa and
the wall. No one would find her now unless he leaned
right over the back and looked down. The whole thing
was just the outcome of a schoolgirl instinct to hide.</p>

<p>Margot sat in her corner giggling inwardly and
wondering if Egbert would stay there long—it would be
a bore if she had to miss her tea. She wondered why he
had rung the bell. It was that stupid William’s business
to answer it. Margot thought he was quite the stupidest
footman they had ever had.</p>

<p>Someone came through the door and shut it. Margot
couldn’t see anything, but she heard Egbert say, ‘Come
here—I want to talk to you’; and then, ‘Where is she?’</p>

<p>‘She went out to post a letter.’</p>

<p>It ought to have been William who answered the
bell. But this was not William’s voice. It didn’t sound
like a footman’s voice at all; it was rather bored and
curt.</p>

<p>Egbert said, ‘Well, I’ve asked her, and she won’t
have me. I told you she wouldn’t—I told you it wasn’t
any good.’</p>

<p>It couldn’t be William who had answered the bell.
Egbert wouldn’t tell William that he had proposed to
her and that she had said ‘No’. Margot giggled again
as she thought of what she had really said.</p>

<p>The man who couldn’t be William made an impatient
sound.</p>

<p>‘Of course you made a mess of it—you’d be bound to
do that.’</p>

<p>Who on earth could it be? None of the servants
would speak to Egbert like that. But he had rung the
bell, and it was William’s business to answer the bell.</p>

<p>‘I didn’t make a mess of it. I pointed out what a
good thing it would be for her.’</p>

<p>‘You made a mess of it. A girl of eighteen wants to
be made love to—I suppose you never thought of that.’</p>

<p>‘She never gave me a chance. I don’t like her, and
she doesn’t like me, and there’s an end of it.’</p>

<p>‘Is there? You know best what your orders are, and
you know whether he’ll be pleased at your failure to
carry them out.’</p>

<p>‘He can’t expect me to marry the girl if she won’t
have me.’ Egbert’s tone was pettish in the extreme.</p>

<p>‘He expects you to marry her or <span class='it'>remove</span> her. He’s not
taking any risks—there’s too much at stake.’</p>

<p>Margot felt as if she were listening to a play. It was a
frightening play; it made her feel creepy all down the
back of her neck. Who was <span class='it'>he</span>? Why did he want
Egbert to marry her? Was it Mr Hale? What did they
mean by saying that Egbert would have to marry her or
<span class='it'>remove</span> her? It had a horrid sort of sound.</p>

<p>Egbert said, ‘He can’t make me marry her.’</p>

<p>And then the man who couldn’t be William said,
‘Oh well, that was just a concession to your family
feelings. He would really prefer her out of the way for
good and all.’</p>

<p>Margot’s hands began to feel very cold. It was getting
more frightening every minute.</p>

<p>‘He can’t make me do that either,’ said Egbert
Standing.</p>

<p>The other man laughed. The laugh didn’t make
Margot feel any better.</p>

<p>‘I think you’ll do what you’re told when you get
your orders. I’m to report tonight, and I think we shall
both do exactly what we’re told to do. And I think—I
rather think—Miss Margot is for it.’</p>

<p>‘Ssh!’ said Egbert quickly.</p>

<p>The other man laughed again.</p>

<p>‘What a rabbit you are! It’s a pity, because she’s
quite a pretty girl. It seems a pity to waste her, but I
agree with him that she’s better out of the way. I’ll
make up the fire now I’m here. Local colour! And I
won’t stop in case Daniels takes it into his pompous
head to wonder what I’m doing.’</p>

<p>Margot heard a log fall on the fire, and then the
scrunching rattle of coal. After a minute the door was
opened and shut again. The man who couldn’t possibly
have been William had gone away.</p>

<p>She had to wait another ten minutes before Egbert
Standing went away too.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
