<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale was considerably annoyed next morning by the arrival of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Egbert Standing and a large leather suitcase full of unsorted papers. One of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale’s clerks brought in the suitcase and placed it on the floor, whereupon Egbert with a wave of the hand commanded him to open it.</p>
			<p>“It isn’t locked⁠—I never lock things⁠—you just slide back those what-d’you-call-its.”</p>
			<p>The clerk slid back the what-d’you-call-its and lifted the top. A mask of crumpled paper met the eye.</p>
			<p>“There!” said Egbert. “My man tells me that’s the lot.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale looked at the suitcase, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale’s clerk looked at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale. A large envelope marked Income Tax lay across a pale blue note. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale sniffed. A surprisingly vigorous scent of patchouli arose from the suitcase. He suspected the pale blue note⁠—income tax officials do not use patchouli.</p>
			<p>“Go on⁠—sort them,” said Egbert in a tone of languid encouragement.</p>
			<p>“I should have thought you would prefer to sort them yourself.”</p>
			<p>Egbert shook his head.</p>
			<p>“I couldn’t be bothered.”</p>
			<p>“Your private correspondence⁠—” began <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale. He eyed the pale blue note.</p>
			<p>Egbert yawned.</p>
			<p>“I can’t be bothered. Let him get on with it.”</p>
			<p>After receiving a nod from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale, the clerk proceeded to get on with it. The contents of the suitcase appeared to consist chiefly of unpaid bills. There was a sprinkling of other scented notes⁠—pink, mauve, and brown. There were two sock-suspenders, an artificial flower in a condition of extreme old age, a green satin slipper with a gold heel, and several photographs of damsels in brief skirts and a great many pearls.</p>
			<p>“Put the letters on one side, Cassels,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale. “We’re looking for a letter in the late <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing’s hand. I don’t know if you remember it.”</p>
			<p>“I think I do, sir. Isn’t this his writing?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale took it, looked at Egbert, and inquired,</p>
			<p>“Do you wish me to read this? It seems to be part of a letter from your uncle.”</p>
			<p>“Read away⁠—out loud if you like⁠—I’m sure I don’t mind.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale turned the sheet in his hand, frowning.</p>
			<p>“There is nothing about Miss Standing here. I think I will not⁠—er⁠—read it aloud.”</p>
			<p>“Is it the one about blackballing me for that club I told you about?”</p>
			<p>“No,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale.</p>
			<p>Egbert looked slightly puzzled.</p>
			<p>“What is it then?”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing appears to have been refusing a request for a loan.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, <span class="it">that</span> one. He’s got a nasty way of putting it⁠—hasn’t he?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Cassels unfolded a piece of paper which had been crumpled into a ball. Still on his knees, he turned and laid it on the edge of the writing-table.</p>
			<p>“Am I to read this, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing?”</p>
			<p>“You can read them all⁠—it doesn’t worry me. I can’t be bothered myself.”</p>
			<p>The letter was very badly creased indeed. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale uttered an exclamation as his eye lighted upon the address and the date. The paper was stamped with the name of a hotel in Majorca, and the date was only a fortnight old. He read the address aloud and repeated the date; then glancing down the sheet, he spoke to the young clerk still rummaging among bills.</p>
			<p>“That will do, Cassels. This is the letter we were looking for.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale turned sharply upon Egbert.</p>
			<p>“This letter was written the day before your uncle was drowned. It is, as far as we know, the last letter he ever wrote. It is impossible to over-rate its importance. How could you fail to realize this?”</p>
			<p>“I don’t take any interest in business,” said Egbert. “I told you I didn’t. I told you my line was Art.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale rapped the table.</p>
			<p>“You cannot possibly fail to realize the importance of this letter.”</p>
			<p>Egbert yawned.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know that I read it very carefully. My uncle’s letters don’t interest me, you know.”</p>
			<p>“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Standing, I will ask you to listen attentively whilst I read you this letter.”</p>
			<p>Egbert sprawled in the big armchair with half-shut eyes. It is possible that he listened attentively; but he had all the appearance of being half asleep.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale’s voice was sharp as he read from the crumpled page:</p>
			<div class="blockquote">
				<p class="line" style="text-align:left;margin-left:0em;">My dear Egbert,</p>
				<p>I will neither lend you any money, nor will I give you any money. Your letter serves to remind me, not for the first time, that I had better make my will and have done with the chances to which Margot’s irregular birth exposes the fortune which I have laboured to build up. Even if she were legitimate, I would not expose her to the risks involved in the possession of so much money. I shall make a will as soon as I return to England, and I advise you not to expect too much from me. What you want is a good hard bout of honest work.</p>
				<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;">E. Standing</p>
			</div>
			<p>“It’s a rude letter⁠—isn’t it?” said Egbert sleepily. “I remember I nearly tore it up.”</p>
			<p>“You would have been tearing up about three million pounds if you had,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hale in his most impressive voice.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
