<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXVI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-26" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h2>
			<p>Margaret came home a little earlier than usual. Business had been slack and she had got away punctually‚ÅÝ‚Äîa thing which did not very often happen. Greta came in full of conversation, full of Ambrose Kimberley, full of Charles and their run to Hindhead.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhere is Charles?‚Äù asked Margaret.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe wouldn‚Äôt come in. But he‚Äôs coming tomorrow, and he‚Äôs going to teach me to drive his car. He did teach me a little bit today, only every time I met something I was so frightened I just threw the wheel at him, and he says his nerves won‚Äôt stand the strain for more than about a quarter of an hour at a time. I said I didn‚Äôt mind going on a bit, and he said it was frightfully brave of me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Greta was looking alarmingly pretty. She glowed and shone in the little room. She made Margaret feel dingy and drab and old, with that dreadful sense of age which is only possible when one is under five-and-twenty. Everything had gone by her‚ÅÝ‚Äîhome, friends, leisure, looks. She did not say to herself that she had lost Charles Moray; but perhaps this one loss included all the others.</p>
			<p>She cleared away supper, made up the fire, and sat down with idle hands. Greta prattled on about Archie, about Charles, about whether Archie was better looking than Charles, or Charles better looking than Archie, or whether Ambrose Kimberley wasn‚Äôt better looking than either of them, and did Margaret like blue eyes or grey ones best, or did she prefer brown?</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYours are brown, so you ought to marry someone with blue eyes, oughtn‚Äôt you?‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚ÄîGreta‚Äôs voice was earnest‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúor grey ones. Archie has blue eyes‚ÅÝ‚Äîhasn‚Äôt he? Of course they show a lot because of his not having very bushy eyelashes. Now Charles‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat colour would you say Charles‚Äôs eyes were?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGrey.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI thought they were. I said so in my letter to Stephanie, but afterwards I thought perhaps they weren‚Äôt. His eyelashes being so black makes it sort of confusing. You‚Äôre sure they‚Äôre grey?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret looked into the fire.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúQuite sure.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She saw Charles‚Äôs eyes looking into hers, looking smilingly, teasingly, earnestly; looking love‚ÅÝ‚Äîall gone‚ÅÝ‚Äîall past‚ÅÝ‚Äîall dead‚ÅÝ‚Äînever to come again.</p>
			<p>Greta went on in her soft childish voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI do like dark eyes‚ÅÝ‚Äîin a man. Don‚Äôt you? No, you wouldn‚Äôt, because yours are dark. Margaret, have you ever been engaged?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret got up.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat a lot of questions!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt must be such fun,‚Äù said Greta. ‚ÄúI should like to be engaged a lot of times before I got married, because you can‚Äôt ever go back and get engaged again‚ÅÝ‚Äîcan you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret‚Äôs eyes stung.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, you can‚Äôt go back.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo you might just as well be engaged to plenty of people while you can. Do you think Charles would be nice to be engaged to?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúQuite,‚Äù said Margaret. She was standing with her back to Greta arranging the music in a little stand.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs what I thought. I don‚Äôt think I should mind being engaged to Charles. You see, he‚Äôs got a car, and he could teach me to drive, and I think that‚Äôs rather important‚ÅÝ‚Äîisn‚Äôt it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚Äú<span class="it">Essential</span>,‚Äù said Margaret, in an odd dry voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course I think he‚Äôd be simply terrifying to be married to. Don‚Äôt you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret lifted the parcel which she had brought from her old home on the night she first met Margot Standing. She held it stiffly at arms‚Äô length. She spoke a little stiffly too:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHas he asked you to marry him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Greta giggled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, not yet. Archie hasn‚Äôt either. I want to have lots of fun first. Florence, one of the girls at school, says her sister has been engaged fifteen times. She‚Äôs a simply <span class="it">frightfully</span> pretty girl called Rose Lefevre, and she says Rose always says it‚Äôs a great mistake to let them rush you, because really the most amusing time is just before. Rose says they get uppish almost at once after you‚Äôve said ‚ÄòYes.‚Äô And she says if they‚Äôre like that when they‚Äôre engaged, what will they be like when you‚Äôre married to them? That‚Äôs why she doesn‚Äôt ever stay engaged very long. She says about three weeks is enough really. But Florence says once it was only three days‚ÅÝ‚Äîonly then there <span class="it">was</span> a row, and her father said he wouldn‚Äôt have it and Rose was a scandal. But she‚Äôs been engaged a lot more times since. Which do you think would be the most fun to be engaged to‚ÅÝ‚ÄîArchie, or Charles?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret came over to the table. She put her parcel down on it and began to remove the paper wrapping.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI shouldn‚Äôt get engaged to either until you‚Äôre quite sure.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, but I <span class="it">want</span> to be engaged! I want to have a ring and write and tell all the girls. I don‚Äôt want to wait. You see I could easily be not engaged if I didn‚Äôt like it‚ÅÝ‚Äîcouldn‚Äôt I? You didn‚Äôt say if you were ever engaged. I expect you must have been. What sort of ring did you have? I just can‚Äôt make up my mind about the ring. Sometimes I think a sapphire, and sometimes I think all diamonds. I don‚Äôt think fair girls ought to wear rubies. Do you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret folded up the paper which she had taken off the parcel. It crackled a good deal. She put it away in the bottom drawer of an old walnut bureau before she spoke. Then she said,</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWait till you‚Äôve quite made up your mind.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh!‚Äù said Greta; it was a quick, sudden exclamation. She jumped up, ran to the table, and caught with both hands at the desk which Margaret had just unpacked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMargaret! Where did you get it from?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret turned in astonishment. Greta was flushed and excited.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMargaret, where did you get it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs mine‚ÅÝ‚Äîit was my mother‚Äôs.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh!‚Äù said Greta. She looked down at the desk. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚Äîdo you know I thought it was mine‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI did really. And it gave me a most frightful start, because I couldn‚Äôt think <span class="it">how</span> you‚Äôd got it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret came up to the table. The desk stood between her and Greta. It was covered in green morocco with a little diagonal pattern stamped on it; the corners were worn shabby; there was a brass handle over a sunk brass plate; and between the plate and the front of the desk were the initials <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">E. M. B.</abbr>in faded gold.</p>
			<p>Greta touched the leather.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI thought it was mine! It‚Äôs‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs exactly like mine.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll these old desks are alike.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThey don‚Äôt all have the same initials on them. Mine‚ÅÝ‚Äîno, how silly of me!‚ÅÝ‚Äîmine has <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">M. E. B.</abbr> on it‚ÅÝ‚Äînot <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">E. M. B.</abbr>‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut it‚Äôs awfully, awfully like this one.‚Äù She slid her finger to and fro over the initials. ‚ÄúIs this your mother? What was her name?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMary Esther Brandon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Greta gave a little shriek.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEsther Brandon? Margaret‚ÅÝ‚Äînot <span class="it">really</span>! Oh, Margaret, how <span class="it">thrilling</span>! Weren‚Äôt you frightfully, frightfully surprised when you asked me what my name was, and I said it was Esther Brandon? Margaret‚ÅÝ‚Äîis <span class="it">that</span> why you brought me home? Oh, Margaret do you think we‚Äôre relations?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret had a most curious sense of shock. Greta, with both hands on the desk, leaning towards her, talking nineteen to the dozen‚ÅÝ‚Äîasking if they were relations. She felt afraid. She said quickly,</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou told me you called yourself Esther Brandon because you found a bit of a torn letter with my mother‚Äôs signature. It may have been written to your father or mother.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt was signed Esther Brandon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat was my mother‚Äôs name before she married my father.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou said Mary Esther.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe never used the Mary.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut it was her initial‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe was <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">M. E. B.</abbr>?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, of course.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut that‚Äôs what there was on my desk‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere was <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">M. E. B.</abbr> in gold. This is <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">E. M. B.</abbr>‚Äù she prodded the E with a little vicious dig. ‚ÄúThis is E, Margaret‚ÅÝ‚Äî<abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">E. M. B.</abbr> It‚Äôs mine that‚Äôs <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">M.E.B.</abbr>‚ÅÝ‚Äînot yours.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret gave herself a mental shake. It was like a ridiculous argument in a dream. It meant nothing; it could not possibly mean anything. She laughed a little.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt really know which of her names came first; but these are her initials, and this is her desk.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs in it?‚Äù said Greta.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs empty. I‚Äôm going to put it away.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMargaret, do open it! I want to see if it‚Äôs like mine inside. Mine opened like this.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She slid the lock to one side, and the lid came up as she pulled at it.</p>
			<p>Margaret came round the table.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere‚Äôs really nothing in it, Greta‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust a pencil or two.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The pencils were plain cedar pencils. Only one had been cut. Margaret lifted out the tray.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou see, there‚Äôs nothing more.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Greta bent closer.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMine had a little drawer down here‚ÅÝ‚Äîa little thin drawer, in under the place where the ink goes. That‚Äôs where my letter was‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe bit with Esther Brandon on it, you know. I shouldn‚Äôt have found my little drawer, only I dropped the desk carrying it down, and a bit of the wood broke, and I saw there was a drawer. And I hooked it out with a hairpin, and there was a tiny little scrap of scrooged up paper wedged in under it. It came out when I got the drawer out. Margaret yours <span class="it">has</span> got a drawer there too‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI can feel it wobble! Ooh! It‚Äôs coming out! Margaret, there‚Äôs something in it!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret pushed her aside. The little drawer had started from its place. There was a folded paper in it. She pulled the drawer right out.</p>
			<p>The paper was a long envelope, doubled to fit the drawer. The minute her fingers touched it, the fear came back. She stood looking at the wrong side of the envelope, dreading to turn it round.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat is it?‚Äù said Greta. ‚ÄúMargaret, do look‚ÅÝ‚Äîdo look quickly!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret Langton turned the envelope. It was of thick yellowish paper. It had a long crease down the middle, and three creases running across it. At one end there was an endorsement in a bold, clear hand:</p>
			<div class="blockquote">
				<p>‚ÄúOur declaration of marriage.</p>
				<p class="line" style="text-align:right;margin-right:1em;"><abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">E. S.</abbr>‚Äù</p>
			</div>
			<p>‚ÄúOh!‚Äù said Greta. She pinched Margaret violently. ‚ÄúOh‚ÅÝ‚ÄîMargaret! How thrilling!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret frowned at the bold, clear writing. It was utterly strange to her. Who was <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">E. S.</abbr>? Esther Brandon had become Esther Langton, and then Esther Pelham. Who was <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">E. S.</abbr>? It wasn‚Äôt her mother‚Äôs writing at all. She hardly felt Greta‚Äôs clutch on her arm.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMargaret‚ÅÝ‚ÄîMargaret! It‚Äôs my father‚Äôs writing!‚Äù</p>
			<p>She said ‚ÄúNonsense!‚Äù in a deep, loud voice that filled the little room and made an echo there.</p>
			<p>Greta let go of Margaret‚Äôs arm and snatched the envelope.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt is! It is! It‚Äôs poor Papa‚Äôs very own writing. It is really! And it‚Äôs his initials too‚ÅÝ‚Äî<abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">E. S.</abbr> for Edward Standing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret put a rigid, steady hand on the paper.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGive it back to me, please.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt says ‚ÄòOur declaration of marriage.‚Äô Margaret, it‚Äôs my father‚Äôs writing! Open it‚ÅÝ‚Äîopen it quickly! Don‚Äôt you see how frightfully important it is? It‚Äôs what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝHale was looking for. It really is Papa‚Äôs writing. Do‚ÅÝ‚Äî<span class="it">do</span> open it!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHush,‚Äù said Margaret.</p>
			<p>Greta flung her arms about her; and it was only when those warm arms touched her that Margaret knew how cold she was. She was very cold, and very much afraid.</p>
			<p>Greta hugged her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh Margaret <span class="it">darling</span>, it was in your mother‚Äôs desk! Oh, Margaret, wouldn‚Äôt it be <span class="it">thrilling</span> if we were sisters?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret pushed her away with violence.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou little fool! Hold your tongue!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Greta stared, most innocently aggrieved.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, I‚Äôd love to be your sister. Do‚ÅÝ‚Äî<span class="it">do</span> open it!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret lifted the flap of the envelope. It had been stuck down, but only very lightly; the flap came up without tearing.</p>
			<p>The envelope was empty.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
