<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XLIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-43" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XLIII</span></h2>
			<p>Margaret lay where she had fallen. The strength had gone out of her. She lay quite still and strained for any sound from beyond the bolted door. There wasn‚Äôt any sound. She could not hear Freddy‚Äôs retreating footsteps or the opening and closing of the wine-cellar door. She could not hear anything at all. The place was soundless, lightless, utterly cut off. The warm, heavy air weighed on her with a deadening pressure. She kept her eyes shut so that she could not see how dark it was. Minutes passed.</p>
			<p>It was a very little thing that roused her. Her left hand lay on a sharp point in the uneven floor, and a good part of her weight rested on this hand. The pressure became unbearable. She moved, shuddered, and sat up.</p>
			<p>Instantly she wished that she had not moved, that she had let the sharp point prick her to the bone. The darkness of the place was dreadful. In every direction there was a gloom so dense that it seemed to forbid movement and breath as well as sight. Only thought remained‚ÅÝ‚ÄîCharles. Was she to die alone in the dark? What had happened to Charles? Would she ever know? What was happening? The door and the darkness were between her and the answer to all the terrified throng of thoughts that clamoured to know.</p>
			<p>She covered her face with her hands and bent her head upon her knees. She mustn‚Äôt let herself lose grip. Grey Mask couldn‚Äôt touch them really. Nothing could touch you as long as you held on‚ÅÝ‚Äînot darkness, nor silence, nor anything that anyone could do. She stopped minding the dark.</p>
			<p>It seemed to be a very long time before a sound reached her. It came suddenly, harshly, as the bolts ran back and the door swung in.</p>
			<p>She sat up, her heart beating violently, and saw the beam from Freddy‚Äôs torch cutting across the corner of the nearest packing-case. The wood was rough and splintered. The beam gave each splinter its own black shadow, then, shifting, touched Charles Moray‚Äôs foot. His ankles had been untied. He seemed to be leaning against the case. Behind him, Freddy spoke:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPride goes before a fall. Get down and get in! I haven‚Äôt any more time to spare for either of you. Get inside!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret was filled with a curious trembling joy. Charles was here. Whatever happened, they were going to be together. She drew back and saw him come through the low doorway bent double. Suddenly he pitched forward as Freddy thrust at him from behind.</p>
			<p>Margaret gave a sharp cry of pain, and had the light flashed full upon her face.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, well,‚Äù said Freddy Pelham, ‚Äúyou can now make the most of your time together. You can break your finger-nails trying to undo my knots, and when you‚Äôve got them undone, you‚Äôll be just as far from getting out of this as you were before. It may save you a good deal of trouble if I tell you that this place is absolutely sound-proof. You won‚Äôt even hear me lock the wine-cellar door as I go out, and from the other side of that door I shouldn‚Äôt hear a sound if you were shouting through a megaphone. There are eight feet of earth between you and the garden, and six men couldn‚Äôt break down the door. I don‚Äôt know what old Joe Tunney used this cellar for; but I know what we‚Äôve used it for, and it has stood the test every time. The ventilation is quite adequate and rather ingenious.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He shifted the torch and allowed it to light up his wrist watch for an instant.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI must be going. I have still a few things to do, and I have to be up early. Perhaps it may solace you tomorrow to think of my flying to Vienna. With any luck we shall get above the fog. You can think of me bathed in sunshine. There was an old-fashioned song which I remember an aunt of mine used to sing very charmingly:</p>
			<div class="literal-container" style="">
				<div class="literal">
					<!-- rend=';' -->
					<p class="line">‚ÄòFor I am content to abide in the shadow</p>
					<p class="line">So long as the sunshine falls brightly on thee.‚Äô</p>
				</div>
			</div>
			<!-- end rend -->
			<p>In Vienna‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI have an account to square.‚Äù His voice had changed; the words came slowly; there were strange undertones of reluctance, effort, fear. Grey Mask‚Äôs one weakness was a weakness still. It was not the least of Esther Brandon‚Äôs many triumphs.</p>
			<p>With a quick jerk Freddy Pelham slammed the door on them. The bolts were shot with violence.</p>
			<p>Margaret listened as she had done before, and heard no further sound. She put out her hand and groped for Charles. And then a dreadful thought struck her rigid. Suppose Freddy hadn‚Äôt really gone. Suppose he were just waiting there on the other side of the door to see what they would do‚ÅÝ‚Äîlistening, waiting, ready to break in on them and snatch away their little lingering hope.</p>
			<p>She crept to the door, laid her ear against the crack, and listened with such an intensity that it seemed to her as if she must hear every sound in the world.</p>
			<p>She could hear nothing.</p>
			<p>Then in the dark beside her Charles Moray moved, struggling into a sitting position. Instantly she forgot Freddy. Still on her knees, she turned; her arm flung out, struck against his shoulder and came about him in a movement astonishingly full of protecting strength. She began to whisper to him:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCharles‚ÅÝ‚Äîare you all right? I‚Äôll get this dreadful thing out of your mouth‚ÅÝ‚Äîif I were only sure he‚Äôd gone‚ÅÝ‚Äîdo you think it‚Äôs safe? Wait‚ÅÝ‚Äîwait‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust a minute‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhilst I listen again. Are you all right? Move your head if you are.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She felt it move, and turned back to the door. Not a sound‚ÅÝ‚Äînot one smallest sound. After all, why should he wait? He wouldn‚Äôt wait‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe would want to get away.</p>
			<p>She turned round again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think it‚Äôs all right. He‚Äôd want to get away. I want you to lean against me‚ÅÝ‚Äîyes, like that‚ÅÝ‚Äîso that I can feel just where you are. I came straight from the shop, so I‚Äôve got my scissors. I‚Äôve been thinking of them all the time. I can cut that horrible bandage, only you must keep awfully still.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The fingers of her right hand went to her coat, unbuttoning it. The scissors hung at her side, a good strong pair, really made for use. She cut through the ribbon that held them, and then, shielding the point with a very careful finger, guided them to where the bandage crossed his left ear. The gag had been tied on with a silk handkerchief. Once the point was under the tight fold, it was easily cut.</p>
			<p>Charles had never experienced a more blessed relief. He coughed, spluttered, and spat out the gag‚ÅÝ‚Äîanother handkerchief by the feel of it. Margaret was fingering the rope at his wrists. This was silk too‚ÅÝ‚Äîone of those heavy cords that are used to loop back the old-fashioned type of curtain. The knots might have defied her, but the strands were soon cut through.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs great!‚Äù</p>
			<p>He stretched his arms, then felt his head gingerly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAre you all right? Charles‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúRight as rain.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSsh! Perhaps he‚Äôs still there. He mustn‚Äôt hear you speak. Do you think he‚Äôs gone?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy dear, what does it matter?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhy did you say that?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles put his arm round her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWe‚Äôd better face it, old girl. We‚Äôre through. If he came back and shot us, it would be quicker.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She did not speak for a minute. She did not speak, because for a long minute she was too happy to speak. She leaned against Charles in the darkness and felt his arm about her, very strong, very steady. Nothing seemed to matter.</p>
			<p>The arm about her tightened.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMargaret!‚Äù</p>
			<p>She turned her face to him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMargaret‚ÅÝ‚Äîwe‚Äôre together!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù The word was a sighing breath.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve been an utter beast to you. I‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI loved you all the time.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He felt her draw away.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI thought‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou loved Greta.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGood Lord! I‚Äôm not a nursemaid! The creature‚Äôs about five years old! You didn‚Äôt really think so!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI did.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy darling idiot!‚Äù</p>
			<p>He kissed her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo you think so now‚ÅÝ‚Äînow‚ÅÝ‚Äî<span class="it">now</span>? Why are you crying‚ÅÝ‚ÄîMeg?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret hid her face against him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBecause I‚Äôm so‚ÅÝ‚Äîhappy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>There was a blessed silence. The cellar, the darkness, the desperate, hopeless state in which they stood, were just the outer shadow which could not touch them. Margaret, at least, was in some joyful place of heart‚Äôs desire, the haven which she had longed for and never hoped to see.</p>
			<p>To Charles the shadow was a visible menace. He spoke first:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThey‚Äôll look for us‚ÅÝ‚Äîthey‚Äôre bound to look for us.‚Äù</p>
			<p>But even at the sound of his own words his heart sank. They might look; but how would they ever find them here?</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf we‚Äôd a light. Do you know how big this place is?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo. I don‚Äôt think there‚Äôs any way out, or he wouldn‚Äôt have left us. But, Charles, they <span class="it">will</span> look for us.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid anyone know you were coming here?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOne of the girls at the shop did. I told her I was going to say goodbye to my stepfather. And‚ÅÝ‚Äîand Archie knew‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù She stopped, trying to remember exactly what she had said to Archie.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm trying to think. I said‚ÅÝ‚Äîyes, I‚Äôm sure I only said‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI didn‚Äôt mention Freddy‚Äôs name‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI told Archie to go to the police. And he didn‚Äôt want to. Did he know about me?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI told him last night. It seems about a hundred years ago. What did you say to him?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI said there was someone who might know where Greta was. Oh, Charles, I wonder where she is?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs that all you said?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think so. But if he was to ask at the shop, they might think‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis place is so damnably well hidden.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCharles, I want to tell you‚ÅÝ‚Äîdoes it make it worse for you to hope? I <span class="it">do</span> think there‚Äôs <span class="it">some</span> hope.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhere?‚Äù</p>
			<p>To Charles there seemed to be no hope at all.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBecause‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôll tell you‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou know when I was sitting at the table up there in the study‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI was desperate‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI felt I must do something after he said that about the cellars. I don‚Äôt know if you could see me. I had my arms on the table, and I put my head down and pretended I was crying. I wasn‚Äôt crying. I‚Äôd seen a pencil, and I got it in my fingers and wrote on a bit of paper. I wrote ‚ÄòCellars‚ÅÝ‚ÄîC and M.‚Äô I kept the paper in the palm of my hand. I‚Äôd thought what I would do‚ÅÝ‚Äîit was just a chance, but it was the only thing I could think of. All the time he was talking and walking up and down, I was trying to think. And I tore up some little bits of paper quite small and kept them in my other hand. When I went back to the window as if I was frightened‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh, I <span class="it">was</span> frightened‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI didn‚Äôt have to pretend‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI was horribly frightened‚ÅÝ‚Äîbecause I thought he‚Äôd shoot you if he found out‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat did you do?‚Äù said Charles quickly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI stuck the paper on the glass‚ÅÝ‚Äîon the window-pane. I‚Äôd sucked my finger and made it wet, and stuck the paper on the glass‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe bit I‚Äôd written on. I wasn‚Äôt sure if it would stick, but it did. It‚Äôs only a chance, but if he doesn‚Äôt find it, they will.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles held her tight.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs behind the blind?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe won‚Äôt pull up the blind. Why should he? I don‚Äôt believe he‚Äôll find it. Archie‚Äôs bound to come here. Margaret‚ÅÝ‚Äîdarling‚ÅÝ‚Äîdarling‚ÅÝ‚Äîdarling‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI believe you‚Äôve saved us!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI couldn‚Äôt think of anything else except‚ÅÝ‚Äîexcept‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI dropped a little bit of paper on the stairs, and here and there on the way down to the basement, and one at the wine-cellar door, and two or three where the packing-cases are hiding this little door. I had to chance his seeing them. But he only had a torch. I thought I was bound to risk it. Do you think‚ÅÝ‚Äîdo you really think they‚Äôll find us?‚Äù</p>
			<p>A cold revulsion sobered Charles. The hope which had carried him away offered so much. It gave him happiness, love‚ÅÝ‚Äîand Margaret. He was afraid to look at what it offered him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚ÅÝ‚Äîdon‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Äîknow,‚Äù he said.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
