<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter IV</h2>
			<p>He interviewed Lattery, and could not determine whether he had to do with an unfaithful steward or a great stupid oaf who was scared to death by the sudden apparition of a gentleman whom he believed to be some thousands of miles away.</p>
			<p>‘Where had you been?’</p>
			<p>‘Seeing it was Thursday,’ said Lattery in his slow perplexed voice.</p>
			<p>‘Where had you been?’</p>
			<p>‘Seeing it was Thursday, Mr. Charles⁠—I beg your pardon, <span class="it">sir</span>⁠—seeing it was Thursday and the day I take my pay from the lawyer same as he arranged⁠—and I put it to him fair and square, and so he’ll tell you. I put it to him, sir, wouldn’t it be convenient for to fix on Thursday for me to take the evening off like? And the lawyer he says to me⁠—and one of his clerks was in the room and could tell you the same⁠—he says to me as how there wasn’t any objection.’</p>
			<p>‘Thursday’s your evening off?’</p>
			<p>‘Yes, Mr. Charles⁠—I beg your pardon⁠—<span class="it">sir</span>.’</p>
			<p>‘You always go out on Thursday?’</p>
			<p>‘Yes, sir.’</p>
			<p>Lattery’s face had regained its florid colour, but his round eyes dwelt anxiously on Charles.</p>
			<p>‘Do you always leave the garden door open?’ Charles shot the question at him suddenly.</p>
			<p>‘The garden door, sir?’</p>
			<p>‘The door from the little passage into the garden. Do you generally leave it open?’</p>
			<p>‘No, sir.’</p>
			<p>‘Why did you leave it open tonight?’</p>
			<p>‘Was it open, sir?’</p>
			<p>‘Don’t you know it was? Didn’t you come in that way?’</p>
			<p>‘I come in through the front door,’ said Lattery, staring.</p>
			<p>They were in the study, which opened out of the hall. Charles crossed to the door, flung it open wide, and looked across.</p>
			<p>‘If you came in through the front door, who bolted it and put up the chain?’</p>
			<p>‘Please, sir, I did.’</p>
			<p>Charles felt a little ridiculous. He banged the door and came back to his seat.</p>
			<p>‘When I reached this house an hour ago,’ he said, ‘the door on the alley-way was open. I came in by it. The garden door was open, and I came into the house by that. I went upstairs, and there was a light in my mother’s sitting-room.’</p>
			<p>‘Someone must have left it on, sir.’</p>
			<p>‘The people who left it on were still in the room,’ said Charles drily. ‘They were men⁠—three of them. And they got away down the stair just before me. Are you going to tell me you didn’t see anything?’</p>
			<p>‘I take my oath I didn’t see anything.’</p>
			<p>‘Or hear anything?’</p>
			<p>Lattery hesitated.</p>
			<p>‘I sort of thought I heard a door bang⁠—yes, I certainly thought I heard a door, for it come into my mind that the missus was early.’</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
