<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-39" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter <span epub:type="z3998:roman">XXXIX</span></h2>
			<p>Archie Millar had been spending the most horrible afternoon of his life. He went first to Harridge‚Äôs, where he questioned the commissionaire without adding anything to what <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝFoster had already told him. He then rang up The Luxe, only to discover that Charles Moray was not in the hotel.</p>
			<p>He found Miss Silver‚Äôs office closed, and again rang up The Luxe. Still no Charles.</p>
			<p>After this he rushed into Sauterelle‚Äôs and demanded Margaret Langton. Miss Langton had taken a selection of hats to a customer on the other side of London. On the plea of very urgent family affairs Archie extracted the customer‚Äôs address and proceeded there. Margaret had left ten minutes before.</p>
			<p>He rang up The Luxe again from a public call-office and returned to Sauterelle‚Äôs. Margaret had just come in. He had to wait whilst she was fetched. She found a very distracted young man.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMargaret, she‚Äôs gone!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret did not need to ask who. A most sickening feeling of fear drove the faint colour from her cheeks.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat has happened?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe‚Äôs disappeared. Ernestine had no business to leave her.‚Äù He poured out the commissionaire‚Äôs story. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm nearly off my head. Charles told me about the bus. They‚Äôve carried her off. Heaven knows why she went with him, but she‚Äôs such a darlin‚Äô little innocent, she‚Äôd never think‚ÅÝ‚ÄîMargaret, what <span class="it">are</span> we to do?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou must go to the police.‚Äù Her voice was quite steady.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCharles said‚ÅÝ‚ÄîLook here, I‚Äôll have another shot at Miss Silver first.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve heard of her. But I don‚Äôt see‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCharles was seein‚Äô her. She knows all about everythin‚Äô. He told me last night. I wish to heaven I could get hold of Charles. It‚Äôs past five‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe may have come in. I‚Äôll go and have another shot.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWait,‚Äù said Margaret. ‚ÄúWait a minute. I‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere‚Äôs something I can do. I get off at six. There‚Äôs someone I can go and see. I don‚Äôt know that it‚Äôs much good, but‚ÅÝ‚Äîit might be. Where shall I find you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBetter telephone to Ernestine. I‚Äôll ring up at intervals and find out if there‚Äôs any message. I can‚Äôt tell where I shall be.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He went off once again, tried to get Charles, and, failing, asked without hope for Maud Silver‚Äôs number. To his overwhelming relief he got it, heard a most welcome click, and then Miss Silver‚Äôs voice saying ‚ÄúHullo!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMiss Silver, is that you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSpeaking.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs Archie Millar. I‚Äôve met you at my cousin‚Äôs. Charles Moray told me‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúQuite so, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMillar. I may say I‚Äôve been expecting you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI came round, and your office was shut up.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúQuite so‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI had to go out. You wish for news of Miss Wilson?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMiss Silver, d‚Äôyou know where she is?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI know where I think you may have news of her. Will you take down the address? Number ten, Grange Square.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut I say, Miss Silver, that‚Äôs where‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI say, you know what I mean‚ÅÝ‚Äîisn‚Äôt that‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>Miss Silver rang off.</p>
			<p>Quarter of an hour later he was ringing the doorbell of <abbr>No.</abbr>¬Ý10. The door was opened by a plain, neat young woman in cap and apron. Of butler or footman there was no sign. Up to this very moment it had not occurred to Archie that he had no idea for whom he was going to ask; his idea had been to get to the house, to get news of Greta, to‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, to get to the house.</p>
			<p>He looked at the plain young woman, and felt like a fool.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMillar?‚Äù said the maid.</p>
			<p>Archie walked into the hall and followed dumbly up a marble stair. On the first floor, a long corridor with Persian runners; a dim, soft light; an air of hushed expectancy.</p>
			<p>Archie stopped being harassed and torn by doubts and fears. An overpowering sensation of having walked straight into a story from the Arabian Nights removed all other feelings. He breathed the air of hushed expectancy and found it pleasant.</p>
			<p>The maid opened a door.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMillar,‚Äù she said.</p>
			<p>Archie passed into the room and heard the door close behind him.</p>
			<p>The room was large and solemn; it had the ordered richness of a shrine. The Persian rugs upon the floor were dim and soft and old. The light came from crystal sconces set on the panelled walls.</p>
			<p>Archie looked down the room and beheld Miss Margot Standing curled up on a purple couch. She wore a white frock and a pleased expression. She was eating chocolates.</p>
			<p>He had no very clear idea of how he got across the room. He found himself with his arm around Margot‚Äôs waist; he had an impression that he had just kissed her, and that she did not seem to mind; he was saying things like ‚ÄúMy blessed little darlin‚Äù‚Äô; and she was staring at him with round, surprised blue eyes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúArchie! How f-funny you are!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Archie kissed a sticky little hand and held it to his cheek.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy blessed child! Darlin‚Äô, where <span class="it">have</span> you been? I‚Äôve been nearly off my head about you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot took her hand away and sucked the stickiest finger. She looked through her black lashes at Archie and giggled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you think I was lost?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Archie nodded.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI said you would‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI said you and Charles would both think I was lost. Were you in a frightful state? Is Charles nearly off his head too? I do <span class="it">hope</span> he is! It‚Äôs frightfully exciting to have people in a frightful state about you.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Archie began to pull himself together.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou leave Charles alone‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe‚Äôs not in on this scene. You fix your mind on me. What d‚Äôyou mean by runnin‚Äô away like that? I haven‚Äôt had time to look in the glass, but I shouldn‚Äôt be a bit surprised if my hair hadn‚Äôt been doin‚Äô the turnin‚Äô white in a single night stunt.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot giggled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt hasn‚Äôt.‚Äù She pushed the chocolates towards him. ‚ÄúHave a choc. That‚Äôs a most frightfully good sort, only it comes off creamy on your fingers. I‚Äôm sticky all over from mine. <span class="it">Do</span> have one.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Archie shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI only eat that sort in my bath.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTell me about Charles. Is he looking for me?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDoesn‚Äôt he know I‚Äôm <span class="it">lost</span>?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt suppose he does.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, but I want him to‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI want him to be frightfully upset, and then frightfully pleased to find me, just like you were. You <span class="it">were</span> pleased to find me‚ÅÝ‚Äîweren‚Äôt you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She put her face up to his.</p>
			<p>Archie kissed her again, this time quite deliberately. Margot returned his kiss with engaging frankness. Then she sat back. Neither of them heard a door open and close again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAre you proposing to me? Because you haven‚Äôt done it at all properly if you are. You ought to have <span class="it">said</span> things first, and not kissed me till I said ‚ÄòYes.‚Äô‚Äù Her mouth quivered a little. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs my first proposal, and I did want it to be a proper one. I don‚Äôt count Egbert.‚Äù Archie took both her hands‚ÅÝ‚Äîthey were still rather sticky. He kissed them gently.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy darlin‚Äô child, I‚Äôd propose to you from here till the end of next week if it was the slightest good. I love you quite a lot, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs better,‚Äù said Margot. Then her mouth quivered a little more. ‚ÄúWhy isn‚Äôt it any good? Aren‚Äôt you going to? Why aren‚Äôt you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBecause you‚Äôre not old enough,‚Äù said Archie. ‚ÄúYou‚Äôre just a blessed baby, and I should be a perfect brute if I asked you to marry me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot‚Äôs bright round eyes filled with angry tears. She pulled her hands away with a jerk.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, I‚Äôm eighteen! Lots of people are <span class="it">married</span> by the time they‚Äôre eighteen. One of the girls at school had a sister who was engaged six times before she was eighteen.‚Äù She began to cry. ‚ÄúI think it‚Äôs <span class="it">frightfully</span> horrid of you. And you‚Äôve spoilt my first proposal. And‚ÅÝ‚Äîand‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou needn‚Äôt think I wanted you to propose to me. And you needn‚Äôt think I‚Äôd have said ‚Äòyes.‚Äô And you needn‚Äôt think I like you the least little bit, because I <span class="it">don‚Äôt</span>!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLook here, darlin‚Äô‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI think you‚Äôre <span class="it">frightfully</span> horrid!‚Äù said Margot with a sob. Then suddenly she caught him by the hand. ‚ÄúYou <span class="it">did</span> say you loved me, didn‚Äôt you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI oughtn‚Äôt to have said it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot pinched him very hard.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI <span class="it">hate</span> you when you talk like that. You kissed me, and you <span class="it">did</span> say you loved me‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou <span class="it">know</span> you did. And then you go and spoil everything by saying I‚Äôm not old enough.‚Äù She made a snuggling movement towards him. ‚ÄúArchie‚ÅÝ‚Äî<span class="it">darling</span>‚ÅÝ‚Äî<span class="it">do</span> propose to me properly. I might say ‚Äòyes‚Äô if you ask me frightfully nicely.‚Äù Then she looked up and gave a little scream.</p>
			<p>Archie turned round.</p>
			<p>A man with thick grey hair and rather hard features was leaning on the end of the sofa. His expression was one of amusement.</p>
			<p>Archie sprang up. He stared at the man, and his jaw dropped. A dozen different photographs of this man had frowned or smiled in just this sarcastic manner from the pages of every illustrated paper in London. The shock of recognition was so great that he forgot everything else.</p>
			<p>The man spoke. There was a suspicion of a northern burr in his voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow do you do, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝMillar? I must introduce myself. My name is Edward Standing.‚Äù</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
