<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>IX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<div><h1>Chapter IX</h1></div>

<p>Charles Moray walked twenty yards up Sloane Street,
and then walked twenty yards down again. He continued
to do this. Across the street was a lighted window
with one hat on a stand and a piece of gold brocade
lying carelessly at the foot of a bright green bowl full of
golden fir-cones. Charles was aware that these things
were there, because he had stood in front of the window
and peered in; all that he could actually see from
across the road was a blur of light in the fog. He hoped
he would be able to see Margaret when she came out.</p>

<p>He went up close to a street lamp and looked at his
watch. It was past six o’clock and the fog was getting
thicker every minute. He crossed the street and again
began to walk up and down.</p>

<p>It was a quarter past six before Margaret came out.
He was only a couple of yards away, and even so, he
nearly missed her. There was a shadow that slipped
past him in the fog and was gone.</p>

<p>Charles ran after the shadow. He could not have said
how he knew that it was Margaret who had passed him;
he did not stop to think about that at all. He ran after
her, came in sight of the shadow, and kept pace with it,
a little behind.</p>

<p>He was in a strange mood. There came first the
quick certainty that this was Margaret. And then, like
a flood, this sense of her and of her nearness swept over
him. She walked before him; but if she had been in his
arms, as she once had been, he could not have felt her
more near. If he looked, he would see her very thoughts.
He told himself that all he had ever seen was a mirage—the
real Margaret had never shared a single thought
with him.</p>

<p>He had been quite sure that it was going to be immensely
interesting to meet her again; it had not
entered his head that he would be angry. Yet he had not
walked half a dozen yards behind her before he was as
angry as he had ever been in his life. He was angry in a
new way—angry with Margaret for earning her living,
angrier because she had mixed herself up in who knew
what ridiculous and criminal conspiracy, and angriest
of all because she had made him angry. Mixed with his
anger—curiosity. What was at the bottom of it? What
did it all mean? The explorer in him was most keenly
on the alert. He meant to get to the bottom of the
business.</p>

<p>Perhaps his step quickened a little; he was nearer her
than he had meant to be when they passed under a
street lamp. The light hung above it like a faint white
cloud.</p>

<p>He said, ‘How d’you do, Margaret?’ and said it
lightly and pleasantly. To Margaret Langton the voice
came out of the fog and out of the past. There was a
step that kept pace with her own. And then Charles
Moray said her name—<span class='it'>Charles</span>. She turned, a ghost in
a nimbus. The quick movement was Margaret, the rest
a blur.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Charles!</span>’</p>

<p>Her voice was unbelievably familiar; it might have
been some voice of his own speaking to him. It shook
him, and a hotter anger than before leapt in him.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Charles!</span> How dare you frighten me like that!’</p>

<p>‘Did I frighten you?’ He spoke smoothly and easily.</p>

<p>Margaret caught her breath.</p>

<p>‘I thought someone was following me. It’s horrible to
be followed in a fog.’</p>

<p>‘I was waiting for you, and I nearly missed you.
That ass Archie had forgotten your address, so I had to
try and catch you here.’</p>

<p>They walked on; the lamp receded. Margaret said,</p>

<p>‘Why did you want to—catch me?’</p>

<p>He shrugged his shoulders.</p>

<p>‘I’ve been away. Perhaps you haven’t noticed. One
comes back, one sees one’s friends—’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Friends</span>—are we friends? I shouldn’t have thought
you would ever want to see me again.’</p>

<p>This was the old Margaret, fiercely untactful.
Charles leapt at the opening. He wanted to hit hard, to
hurt her as much as possible. He kept his indifferent
tone very successfully.</p>

<p>‘Why on earth shouldn’t I want to see you? After
all, we were friends for about ten years before we ever
thought of getting engaged. Wasn’t it ten years? We
were friends for ten years, and then we were engaged
for six months, and then—we stopped being engaged.
Well, the engagement being only an episode, it can be
just wiped out. You see?’</p>

<p>No woman likes to be told that she was only an
episode. Charles was pleasantly aware of this; aware
too that he had succeeded in piercing some armour of
defence.</p>

<p>She said, with a hot resentment, in her voice.</p>

<p>‘How can we be friends? How can you possibly
want to be friends with me?’</p>

<p>Charles laughed.</p>

<p>‘My dear girl, why not? Do let us be modern. These
things don’t last, you know. Do you expect me to be
tragic after four years? I was naturally a bit peeved at
the time. But one doesn’t go on being peeved.’ He
paused, then struck again and struck hard. ‘I’ve been
looking forward immensely to seeing you—but of course
I thought you would be married.’</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Married! I!</span>’</p>

<p>‘Well,’ said Charles, ‘I didn’t suppose you turned me
down just for the fun of the thing. Naturally there was
someone else.’</p>

<p>Margaret turned on him, her head up.</p>

<p>‘Did you say that just to hurt? Or did you believe it?’</p>

<p>Charles laughed again.</p>

<p>‘A bit of both. I believed it all right.’</p>

<p>She made a sound—not a sigh or a sob, but a quick
angry breath.</p>

<p>‘Look here,’ said Charles, ‘I’ll put nearly all my
cards on the table if you like. I propose that we should
wash out the <span class='it'>episode</span> and revert to the <span class='it'>status quo ante</span>.
If you won’t do this, I shall naturally conclude that you
mind meeting me, that you find it embarrassing or
painful.’</p>

<p>Margaret was certainly very angry.</p>

<p>‘My dear Charles, doesn’t it occur to you that I might
simply be bored?’</p>

<p>‘No, it doesn’t. We could fight like fiends, and we
could hate each other like poison; but we could never
be bored. When can I come and see you?’</p>

<p>‘You can’t come and see me.’</p>

<p>‘Too embarrassing? Too painful?’</p>

<p>There was no answer. He thought he heard her catch
her breath again. He continued in a pleasant social
manner:</p>

<p>‘I was proposing, you know, to revert to the days
before the <span class='it'>episode</span>. You were ten, weren’t you, when
your people came to George Street? I seem to remember
that you didn’t mince your words in those days.
Why bother to mince them now? Why not revert—say
anything you like?’</p>

<p>Margaret said nothing; she walked without turning
her head. Charles walked beside her. He was sorry
there was a fog; he would have liked to see her face. He
gave her a moment; then he spoke again.</p>

<p>‘No words bad enough?’</p>

<p>There were no words at all.</p>

<p>‘When can I come and see you?’</p>

<p>Silence—the fog—a black slippery crossing—Basil
Street. They crossed, and passed through another patch
of hazy light.</p>

<p>‘You used not to sulk,’ said Charles meditatively.</p>

<p>She flung round on him then like an angry schoolgirl.</p>

<p>‘How <span class='it'>dare</span> you?’</p>

<p>Charles was immensely pleased.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Touche!</span>’ he said to himself; and then aloud, ‘I’m
sorry—I haven’t any manners. I’ve been deprived of
the refining influence of woman for four years, you
see. When can I come and see you?’</p>

<p>They had reached the Knightsbridge pavement, and
he stopped instinctively on its dark brink. It was very
dark, the lights of the crawling cars only just discernible,
the noise of the traffic a bewildering dull sound that
seemed to come from everywhere at once.</p>

<p>Charles stopped, but Margaret Langton never
hesitated; she walked straight on, and even as he
looked round for her she was lost in the shuffling,
whispering, hooting gloom. Charles plunged after her.
Someone swore, a hoarse voice shouted. ‘Where are
you gettin’ to?’ The hooter of a car went off right in his
ear, and his shoulder collided violently with somebody’s
driving-mirror. The next half-minute continued
to be like that, only more so.</p>

<p>He fetched up on the island in the middle of the road
with feelings of relief. The island was crowded. Under
the powerful light it was possible to see one’s next door
neighbour. Charles annoyed all the rest of the people
on the island by being neighbour to each of them in
turn. He trod on several toes, was prodded in the ribs
by a very powerful umbrella, and a number of people
asked him what he thought he was doing. As it was
impossible to explain that he was looking for Margaret,
he had to say he was sorry a good many times.</p>

<p>Margaret was not on the island. He came to a
standstill behind a broad blue serge back. A heavily
built man stood just in front of him. He wore a rough
blue coat of the peak-jacket style and had about his neck
a large khaki muffler—the sort of thing that one’s
aunts knitted stacks of during the war. The thought
passed through Charles’s mind and then pricked him so
sharply that he very nearly cried out. He had made the
same comparison before, within the last few days; and
he had made it about the same muffler. He had stared
at that blue serge back and that khaki comforter
before. He had stared through the knot-hole of his
mother’s cupboard and seen that lump shoulder and
that bullet head come into view as Number Forty, the
deaf janitor, opened the door to Grey Mask’s visitors.</p>

<p>He pushed against the man, hoping to see his face;
and as he did so, he said mechanically,</p>

<p>‘I beg your pardon.’</p>

<p>In a moment his interest was dashed. The man turned
half round and said,</p>

<p>‘Granted.’</p>

<p>Charles saw a square fresh-coloured face, clean-shaven,
and then the man turned again and stepped off
the island into the road. Charles stepped off too.</p>

<p>Forty was stone deaf. This man was not stone deaf.
He must have heard Charles say ‘I beg your pardon’,
because he immediately turned round and said
‘Granted’. He might have turned because Charles
pushed him; but you don’t say ‘Granted’ when someone
barges into you from behind. No, he must have heard.
Then he wasn’t Forty, because Forty was deaf. Grey
Mask said that Forty was deaf.</p>

<p>Charles considered what he knew of Forty. He was
Grey Mask’s janitor—in other words a villain who was
trusted by other villains. And Grey Mask said he was
deaf. To Charles he was merely a bullet head, a blue
serge coat, a pair of broad shoulders, and a khaki
muffler.</p>

<p>Charles inclined strongly to the evidence of his own
eyes. He followed the muffler. He followed it to the
corner and along twenty yards or so of pavement. Then
he followed it into a Hammersmith bus.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
