<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<div><h1>Chapter VI</h1></div>

<p>When Mr Hale had finished explaining the exact legal
position of an illegitimate daughter whose father had
died intestate, Miss Standing’s eyes were round with
indignation.</p>

<p>‘I never heard anything so frightfully unjust in all
my life,’ she said firmly.</p>

<p>‘I’m afraid that doesn’t alter the law.’</p>

<p>‘What’s the good of women having the vote then? I
thought all those frightful unjust laws were going to be
altered at once when women got the vote. Miss Clay
always said so.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale had never heard of Miss Clay, who was in
fact an undermistress at Mme Mardon’s. He himself
had always been opposed to women’s suffrage.</p>

<p>‘Do you mean to say’—Miss Standing sat bolt
upright with her plump hands clasped on her blue serge
knee—‘do you actually mean to say that I don’t get
anything?’</p>

<p>‘You are not legally entitled to anything.’</p>

<p>‘How absolutely disgraceful! Do you mean to say
that Papa had millions and millions, and I don’t get any
of it at all? Who gets it if I don’t? I suppose somebody
does get it. Or does Government just <span class='it'>steal</span> it all?’</p>

<p>‘Your cousin, Mr Egbert Standing, is the heir-at-law.
He will—er—doubtless consider the propriety of
making you an allowance.’</p>

<p>Miss Standing sprang to her feet.</p>

<p>‘Egbert! You’re joking—you <span class='it'>must</span> be joking!’</p>

<p>Mr Hale looked the offence which he felt.</p>

<p>‘<span class='it'>Really</span>, Miss Standing!’</p>

<p>Margot stamped her foot.</p>

<p>‘I don’t believe a single word of it. Papa didn’t even
like Egbert. He said he was a parasite. I remember
quite well, because I didn’t know what the word meant,
and I asked him, and he made me look it up in the
dictionary. And he said he didn’t know what he’d done
to deserve having Egbert for a nephew. He said it was
a great pity someone hadn’t drowned his brother
Robert when he was a baby, because then he couldn’t
have had Egbert. That’s what Papa said, and do you
suppose he’d want his money, and all his things, and his
pictures to go to someone he felt like that about? Papa
simply adored those horrible gloomy pictures, and he’d
hate Egbert to have them. Egbert adores them too—I
can’t think why—and that used to make Papa angrier
than anything else. Aren’t people funny?’</p>

<p>When Mr Hale had taken his leave, Margot continued
her letter to Stephanie.</p>

<div class='blockquote'>

<p>Oh, Stephanie, he’s been! Mr Hale, the lawyer, I
mean. He’s the most frightful old stiff, with the sort
of boring voice that makes you go to sleep in church
when a parson has it. Only I didn’t go to sleep,
because he was saying the most frightfully devastating
sort of things. There are a whole heap of the most
frightful family secrets, and he says he thinks I’m
illegitimate like the people in history. And I didn’t
know anyone ever was except in history books. But
he says he thinks I am, because he doesn’t think my
father was ever married to my mother. And I don’t
understand about it, but he says there isn’t any certificate
of their being married, and there isn’t any
certificate of my being born. And doesn’t that just
show how stupid the whole thing is? Because if I
hadn’t been born, I shouldn’t be here. So I can’t see
what on earth anyone wants a certificate for. And he
says I shan’t have any money ...</p>

</div>

<p>Mr Hale returned to his office, where he presently
interviewed Mr Egbert Standing. He had not met him
before, and he looked at him now with some disfavour.
Mr Hale did not like fat young men: he did not like
young men who lolled; he disapproved of bow ties with
loose ends, and of scented cigarettes. He regarded the
curl in Egbert’s hair with well-founded suspicion. For a
short moment he shared a sentiment with Miss Margot
Standing—he did not like Egbert. The young clerk
who took notes in the corner did not like him either.</p>

<p>Everything else apart, Mr Egbert Standing was a
most difficult person to do business with. He lolled and
yawned, and ran his fingers through the artificial waves
of his mouse-coloured hair. He had a round featureless
face with light eyes, light lashes, and no eyebrows. Mr
Hale disliked him very much indeed. It seemed impossible
to get him to take any interest either in Miss
Standing’s predicament or his own position as heir-at-law.</p>

<p>Mr Hale repeated Mr Hale senior’s remarks very
much as he had repeated them to Margot.</p>

<p>‘My father left me in no doubt that there was some
irregularity in Miss Standing’s position. He pressed Mr
Standing to make a will, but Mr Standing put the
matter aside. I am quite sure that my father knew more
than he told me. I believe that he was in Mr Standing’s
confidence. May I ask whether your uncle ever spoke
to you on the matter?’</p>

<p>Egbert lolled and yawned.</p>

<p>‘I believe he did.’</p>

<p>‘You believe he did!’</p>

<p>‘I have some slight recollection—I—er—I’m not a
business man. I—er—don’t take much interest in
business.’</p>

<p>‘Can you tell me what your uncle said?’</p>

<p>Egbert ran his hands through his hair.</p>

<p>‘I—er—really I have a very poor memory.’</p>

<p>‘Mr Standing, this is a very important matter. Do
you assert that your uncle spoke to you in such a sense
as to lead you to suppose that your cousin was
illegitimate?’</p>

<p>‘Something of that sort.’ Egbert’s voice was languid
in the extreme.</p>

<p>‘What did he say?’</p>

<p>‘I—er—really can’t remember. I don’t take much
interest in family matters.’</p>

<p>‘You must have some recollection.’</p>

<p>‘My uncle was, I believe, excited—I seem to
remember that. He was, in fact, annoyed—with
me—yes, I think it was with me. And I have some
recollection of his saying—’ Egbert paused and regarded
his right thumb-nail critically.</p>

<p>‘Yes? What did he say?’</p>

<p>‘I really don’t remember exactly. It was something
about his will.’</p>

<p>‘Yes? That is important.’</p>

<p>‘I don’t remember really what he said. But he
seemed annoyed. And it was something about making
his will, because he’d be hanged if he’d let the property
come to me. But he didn’t make a will after all, did he?’</p>

<p>‘We haven’t been able to find one. Was that all he
said, Mr Standing?’</p>

<p>‘Oh no there was a lot more—about my cousin, you
know.’</p>

<p>‘What did he say about your cousin?’</p>

<p>Egbert yawned.</p>

<p>‘I didn’t take any interest in her, I’m afraid.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale strove for patience.</p>

<p>‘What did your uncle say about his daughter’s
position?’</p>

<p>‘I don’t remember,’ said Egbert vaguely. ‘Something
about it’s being irregular—something like he said
before, when he wrote to me.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale sat bolt upright.</p>

<p>‘Your uncle <span class='it'>wrote</span> to you about his daughter’s
position?’</p>

<p>Egbert shook his head.</p>

<p>‘He wrote to me about the club I was putting up for—said
he’d blackball me.’</p>

<p>Mr Hale tapped on the table.</p>

<p>‘You said he wrote to you about his daughter.’</p>

<p>‘No, he wrote to me about blackballing me for the
club. He just mentioned his daughter.’</p>

<p>‘In a letter of that sort? <span class='it'>Mr Standing!</span>’</p>

<p>‘Come to think of it, it wasn’t that letter at all. I told
you my memory was awfully bad.’</p>

<p>‘Oh, it was another letter? And what did he say?’</p>

<p>‘I really can’t remember,’ said Egbert in an exhausted
voice.</p>

<p>‘Have you got that letter—did you keep it?’</p>

<p>Egbert brightened a little.</p>

<p>‘I might have it, but I don’t know—I’m so awfully
careless about letters. I just leave them about, you
know, and sometimes my man throws them away, and
sometimes he doesn’t. I could ask him.’</p>

<p>‘He’d be hardly likely to remember, but perhaps you
will have a search made.’</p>

<p>‘He reads all the letters,’ said Egbert thoughtfully.
‘He <span class='it'>might</span> remember.’</p>

<p>Years of self-control do not go for nothing. Mr Hale
merely pressed his lips together for a moment before
saying:</p>

<p>‘Will you kindly ask him to make a thorough
search? This letter may be a very important piece of
evidence. Indeed, if it contains Mr Standing’s own
admission that his daughter’s birth was irregular, the
whole question would be settled.’ He paused, and
added, ‘In your favour.’</p>

<p>‘I suppose it would,’ said Egbert vaguely.</p>

<p>Mr Hale shuffled some papers.</p>

<p>‘It is, perhaps, a little premature to raise the point,
but if you succeed as heir-at-law, you will, I presume,
be prepared to consider the question of some allowance
to your cousin. I mention this now, because if we had
your assurance on this point, we should be prepared to
make her a small advance. She appears to be entirely
without money.’</p>

<p>‘Does she?’</p>

<p>‘Entirely. She in fact asked me for some money to go
on with only this afternoon.’</p>

<p>‘Did she?’</p>

<p>‘I am telling you that she did, and I should be glad
to have your views on the subject of an allowance.’</p>

<p>Egbert yawned.</p>

<p>‘I don’t go in for having views. Art is what interests
me—my little collections—a bit of china—a miniature a
print—<span class='it'>Art</span>.’</p>

<p>‘Mr Standing, I must really ask you whether you are
prepared to guarantee a small allowance to your
cousin.’</p>

<p>‘Why should I?’</p>

<p>Mr Hale explained.</p>

<p>‘If you succeed to the late Mr Standing’s fortune, you
will be a very wealthy man.’</p>

<p>Egbert shook his head again.</p>

<p>‘Not after everybody’s had their pickings,’ he said.</p>

<p>Mr Hale understood him to refer to the death duties.</p>

<p>‘There will be a good deal left,’ he said drily. ‘An
allowance to your cousin—’</p>

<p>For the third time Egbert shook his head.</p>

<p>‘Nothing doing. If there’s a will, or if it turns out that
my uncle really married her mother, would she make
me an allowance? <span class='it'>Not much.</span>’</p>

<p>‘The positions are hardly analogous.’</p>

<p>‘There’s nothing doing,’ said Egbert—‘not in the
way of an allowance. Someone—’ he ran his hand
through his hair—‘someone suggested we might get
married. What do you think of that?’</p>

<p>‘It is rather a question of what Miss Standing would
think of it.’</p>

<p>‘Why? It would put her all right, wouldn’t it? I
thought it was rather a bright suggestion myself—puts
us both right, don’t you see? If there’s a will or a certificate
it makes it all right for me. And if there isn’t a
will or a certificate, it makes it all right for her. I
thought it was quite a bright suggestion.’</p>

<p>‘It would certainly be a provision for Miss Standing.’</p>

<p>‘Or for me,’ said Egbert.</p>

		</section>
	</body>
</html>
