<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>XX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2>Chapter XX</h2>
			<p>Margot accepted the name without protest. She blinked those very black lashes, uncurled herself, and stood up. She continued to look at Charles.</p>
			<p>The colour in the old green jumper and skirt of Margaret‚Äôs turned her pale blue eyes to turquoise green. Sometimes the black lashes darkened them for an instant. Her skin was amazingly fair and fine. The roses in her cheeks were the prettiest pink roses in the world.</p>
			<p>She dimpled at Charles and inquired,</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow did you know my name?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI guessed.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt see how you could guess.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMargaret guessed too.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid she? Margaret, how did you guess?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIf you want to keep your name a secret,‚Äù said Charles, ‚Äúyou mustn‚Äôt talk about your cousin Egbert.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOr your father‚Äôs collection of Lelys and Turners.‚Äù Margaret‚Äôs tone was a little hard.</p>
			<p>Margot turned to Charles.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou won‚Äôt make me go back?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTell me why you don‚Äôt want to go back?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot told him. The story was the same story that she had told to Margaret, and that Margaret had repeated to him. While she was speaking, he tried to piece together what she had heard Egbert say, and what he himself had overheard. The pieces fitted. But there were gaps which he meant to fill.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou won‚Äôt send me back‚ÅÝ‚Äîwill you? It‚Äôs such a big house, and what they said about <span class="it">removing</span> me gave me a most frightful sort of creepy feeling. It really did.‚Äù</p>
			<p>It gave Charles a creepy feeling too.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, we won‚Äôt send you back. But I think you ought to let your lawyer know where you are.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot turned quite pale.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMr.¬ÝHale!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIs that his name?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMr.¬ÝJames Hale. His father was a friend of poor Papa‚Äôs. He said Papa said all sorts of things to his father.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I think you ought to tell him where you are.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, I don‚Äôt <span class="it">want</span> to.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy on earth not?‚Äù</p>
			<p>She leaned forward whispering,</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI <span class="it">thought</span>‚ÅÝ‚Äîperhaps he was the person who was going to give the orders about <span class="it">removing</span> me.‚Äù She shivered a little. ‚ÄúIt would be frightful if I told him and he <span class="it">was</span>.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles agreed‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe remembered a certain reference to ‚Äúthe lawyer.‚Äù Where everything was so uncertain, it was better to take no step than a false one.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll right. You stay here, and we don‚Äôt tell anyone for a day or two. I‚Äôll try and find out about your Mr.¬ÝHale. What relations have you got?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot giggled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEverybody asks me that. I haven‚Äôt got any relations except Egbert.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat? None at all?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIsn‚Äôt it funny not to have any? Papa only had one brother, and he only had Egbert. Papa hated Egbert. And if my relations were going to be like <span class="it">him</span>, I‚Äôm frightfully glad they never got born.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat about your mother?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot looked important.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt <span class="it">even</span> know her name‚ÅÝ‚Äînot for certain, you know. I <span class="it">think</span> it was Esther Brandon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret swooped into the conversation.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt say that!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot stared at her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI do think so. That‚Äôs why I took it. I think I‚Äôd better be called Esther Brandon‚ÅÝ‚Äîdon‚Äôt you? Because if I go on being Margot Standing, those people might find me.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret turned away. She said,</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDon‚Äôt talk nonsense! You can‚Äôt call yourself Esther Brandon.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Then she went over to the bookcase, picked up a book at random, and began to flick the pages over.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy can‚Äôt I? Why is it nonsense?‚Äù Margot spoke to Charles, not to Margaret.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, there‚Äôs quite a good reason.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut I can‚Äôt be Margot Standing.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, you can‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Äîcan you? Let‚Äôs think of something else. You can be Miss Smith.‚Äù</p>
			<p>She gave a little shriek.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, I can‚Äôt! Not Smith! Not after that horrible Percy Smith!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBrown then, or Wilson‚ÅÝ‚Äîunless you know any bad Browns or wicked Wilsons.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot giggled.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôll be Wilson‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôd rather be Wilson than Brown.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBrown,‚Äù said Charles reprovingly, ‚Äúis a good old Scottish name.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôll be Wilson. Shall I be Margot Wilson?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles considered the question, and shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNo, I don‚Äôt think so. Margot is too uncommon. We‚Äôll make up something else out of Margaret. I suppose you <span class="it">are</span> Margaret?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The other Margaret stood with her back to them, flicking over the pages of her book. She had no idea what the book was. Charles and Margot, sitting close together, talking in low confidential tones, playing a foolish game of names. It was her flat, and she had known Charles Moray for fourteen years; but it was she who had the sense of strangeness and intrusion‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe, and not Margot. Margot appeared to be perfectly at home. She heard her giggle and protest, ‚ÄúI won‚Äôt be Daisy!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles offered her ‚ÄúRita,‚Äù and got a little shriek of ‚ÄúOh‚ÅÝ‚Äî<span class="it">no</span>!‚Äù in reply.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy not? It‚Äôs a very nice name.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs not‚ÅÝ‚Äîit‚Äôs frightful.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHave Madge then.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs worse.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMadge is a perfectly good name.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI won‚Äôt have it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat about Margie?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúFrightful! It‚Äôs exactly like margarine.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, there aren‚Äôt any others.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere‚Äôs Meg,‚Äù said Margot. ‚ÄúI wouldn‚Äôt mind being Meg.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margaret felt as if someone had run a sharp knife into her very suddenly. Charles had called her Meg just once or twice‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust once or twice. She did not hear what he said. She turned another page and read: ‚ÄúOh, Greta‚Äôs banks are fresh and fair.‚Äù She laughed and called over her shoulder,</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou can be Greta.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Margot got up and ran to her.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you find it in your book? Let me see! I rather like it. Where is it? Oh‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhy is it banks? Is it a river? It says, ‚ÄòGreta‚Äôs banks are fresh and fair.‚Äô‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVery appropriate,‚Äù said Charles.</p>
			<p>The bell rang. Margaret pushed Sir Walter Scott back into the bookshelf and went to the door. Mr.¬ÝArchie Millar stood there with a deprecating smile.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI say, may I come in? Is there a spot of tea going?‚Äù</p>
			<p>He was surprised at the warmth of his welcome, surprised and a good deal stimulated. Margaret and he had been very good pals for years. He began at this moment to feel a faint dawn of sentiment.</p>
			<p>Margaret went back into the sitting-room with a little colour in her cheeks. Archie, behind her, caught sight of Charles, hailed him, and then, beholding Miss Margot Standing, stood agaze. It was Charles who rose to the occasion.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThis is Archie Millar. You‚Äôll get used to him. Archie, make your best bow to Miss Greta Wilson. She‚Äôs staying with Margaret.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The prettiest roses in the world became two shades deeper. Miss Greta Wilson giggled, looked between her black lashes, and found Archie a pleasant young man. In half a minute they were deep in conversation. In three minutes he had discovered that she had only just left school, that she didn‚Äôt know anyone in London, and that she loved revues, adored chocolates, and considered <span class="it">Moonlight and You</span> the divinest waltz <span class="it">ever</span>.</p>
			<p>Margaret had begun to get tea. She passed to and fro from the minute kitchen. Charles did not offer to help her. He stood by the window looking down absently upon the darkening street. The lime-tree over the way had begun to lose its leaves; those that still remained were as golden as ripe corn. What on earth were they to do with the girl, far too pretty not to be remembered, far too na√Øve and inexperienced to be set adrift on dangerous waters full of strange cross currents and secret depths? A golden leaf fell wavering to the ground. Archie‚Äôs voice broke in:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúCharles! Here, wake up! What about our all goin‚Äô on the bust tonight? A festive beano‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles shook his head, and was adjured not to look like an undertaker‚Äôs assistant.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe says she hasn‚Äôt seen a thing‚ÅÝ‚Äîyou did say you hadn‚Äôt didn‚Äôt you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Miss Greta Wilson nodded.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAppallin‚Äù‚ÅÝ‚Äîisn‚Äôt it? I don‚Äôt see how we can let it go on for another day. What about dinner for four and the best show we can get into at this sort of last moment?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Charles shook his head again. The prospect of producing Greta in public was a daunting one‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄúShe‚Äôs too pretty by half, and Lord knows whom we should meet.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen what about you and me?‚Äù said Archie. ‚ÄúI must have somethin‚Äô to cheer me up after the horrid blow I‚Äôve just had‚ÅÝ‚Äîstraight out of the blue, and no time to put an umbrella up.‚Äù He addressed Miss Greta Wilson, who inquired if it were raining.</p>
			<p>Archie looked at her reproachfully.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôve had a blow that‚Äôs dashed my proudest hopes into what-you-may-call-‚Äôems.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat has happened, Archie?‚Äù said Margaret. ‚ÄúTea is ready.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúUnconscious of their doom, the little blighters played.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat little blighters? Yes, Charles, two more chairs.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMy fondest hopes,‚Äù said Archie‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äúshattered by a bolt.‚Äù He produced a crumpled copy of the evening paper and waved it. ‚ÄúI shall want heaps and heaps of tea. The blow has driven me to drink.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat on earth‚Äôs happened? Charles, will you cut the bread? The knife‚Äôs most awfully blunt.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere‚Äôs womanly sympathy for you!‚Äù said Archie. ‚ÄúI‚Äôve got a broken heart, and she talks about blunt knife! I‚Äôve lost my heiress. Pain and anguish wring my brow. And no one offers to be a ministerin‚Äô angel‚ÅÝ‚Äîunless Greta will. Will you be a ministerin‚Äô angel, Greta?‚Äù</p>
			<p>The late Miss Margot Standing dimpled, coloured, and said,</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt‚Äôs frightfully romantic. I‚Äôd love to.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHere‚Äôs your tea, Archie. I didn‚Äôt know you‚Äôd got an heiress. Charles, that‚Äôs yours‚ÅÝ‚Äîthere are four lumps of sugar in it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNobody knew but me. Concealment‚Äôs been preyin‚Äô like a tiddleyum upon my damask cheek‚ÅÝ‚ÄîShakespeare! And I‚Äôve been sittin‚Äô like Patience on a thing-ummy-jig smilin‚Äô at grief‚ÅÝ‚Äîmore Shakespeare‚ÅÝ‚Äîsame speech‚ÅÝ‚Äî<span class="it">ibid</span>, as they say in the books.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWho was she?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe <span class="it">wasn‚Äôt</span> an heiress,‚Äù said Archie mournfully. ‚ÄúWhat‚Äôs the good of my fixin‚Äô my young affections on a girl with several millions tacked on, when the evenin‚Äô paper suddenly bursts out with the horrid bomb that she isn‚Äôt goin‚Äô to have the millions after all? Alas, they are another‚Äôs; they never can be mine‚ÅÝ‚Äînot Shakespeare this time. The cash is Egbert‚Äôs.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Greta dropped her teacup with a splash. The tea dripped on the green jumper. She repeated, ‚ÄúEgbert!‚Äù giggled, and repeated it again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEgbert Standing,‚Äù said Archie. ‚ÄúRevoltin‚Äô name! The daily press that never lies says that Egbert scoops the lot‚ÅÝ‚Äîhe gets the whole caboodle, and Margot doesn‚Äôt even get a smell of it. I‚Äôve taken to drink.‚Äù</p>
			<p>He passed up his cup.</p>
			<p>Miss Greta Wilson made no attempt to wipe the tea off her jumper. She fixed her pale blue eyes on Archie with the unwinking stare of a kitten and asked,</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you know her?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Archie shook his head.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPerhaps she‚Äôs frightfully ugly,‚Äù pursued Greta.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe‚Äôs probably hideous,‚Äù said Archie. ‚ÄúIf she weren‚Äôt, there‚Äôd have been about a million photos of her in all the papers.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Greta‚Äôs colour rose.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWould you marry a girl who was perfectly hideous, just because she had heaps of money?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAh!‚Äù said Archie. ‚ÄúIf it were to keep my Aunt Elizabeth‚Äôs parrot out of the workhouse, I might. Some day I‚Äôll tell you all about it‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚ÄòA Hero‚Äôs Sublime Sacrifice. A Parrot‚Äôs Trust Rewarded. Devoted Nephew Saves Indigent Feathered Friend. Matchless Masterpiece In Seventeen Episodes Featurin‚Äô Archibald Millar.‚Äô Hullo, that‚Äôs an idea! Let‚Äôs all go to the pictures. I feel as if it might soothe me to sit in the dark and hold Margaret‚Äôs hand.‚Äù He said ‚ÄúMargaret,‚Äù but he looked at Greta.</p>
			<p>Greta blushed.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
